examples/hamilton_ui/README.md, before:

# Hamilton UI - Machine learning example

Learn how to use the `HamiltonTracker` and the Hamilton UI to track a simple machine learning pipeline.

It also illustrates the following notions:

1. Splitting a pipeline into separate modules (e.g., data loading, feature enginering, model fitting)
2. Use `DataLoader` and `DataSaver` objects to load & save data and collect extra metadata in the UI
3. Use `@subdag` to fit different ML models with the same model training code in the same DAG run.


## Getting started
### Install the Hamilton UI

First, you need to have the Hamilton UI running. You can either `pip install` the Hamilton UI (recommended) or run it as a Docker container.

#### Local Install
Install the Python dependencies:

```bash
pip install "sf-hamilton[ui,sdk]"
```
then launch the Hamilton UI server:
```bash
hamilton ui
# python -m hamilton.cli.__main__ ui # on windows
```

#### Docker Install

See https://hamilton.dagworks.io/en/latest/concepts/ui/ for details, here are the cliff notes:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/dagworks-inc/hamilton
cd hamilton/ui/deployment
./run.sh
```
Then go to http://localhost:8242 to create (1) a username and (2) a project.
See [this video](https://youtu.be/DPfxlTwaNsM) for a walkthrough.

### Execute and track the pipeline

Now that you have the Hamilton UI running, open another terminal tab to:

1. Ensure you have the right python dependencies installed.
```bash
cd hamilton/examples/hamilton_ui
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

2. Run the `run.py` script. Providing the username and project ID to be able to log to the Hamilton UI.
```bash
python run.py --username <username> --project_id <project_id>
```
Once you've run that, run this:
```bash
python run.py --username <username> --project_id <project_id> --load-from-parquet
```

3. Explore results in the Hamilton UI. Find your project under http://localhost:8242/dashboard/projects.

## Things to try:

1. Place an error in the code and see how it shows up in the Hamilton UI. e.g. `raise ValueError("I'm an error")`.
2. In `models.py` change `"data_set": source("data_set_v1"),` to `"data_set": source("data_set_v2"),`, along with
what is requested in `run.py` (i.e. change/add saving `data_set_v2`) and see how the lineage changes in the Hamilton UI.
3. Add a new feature and propagate it through the pipeline. E.g. add a new feature to `features.py` and then to a dataset.
Execute it and then compare the data observed in the Hamilton UI against a prior run.

Commit message:

Replaces most links and Hamilton references (#1339)
This does I think most of the work required to shift to the new docs
by replacing links and naming where appropriate.

This is still missing critical parts that we need in our docs, e.g. the
standard Apache boilerplate ...


Squashed commits --
* Replaces most links

This does not replace the hamilton.dagworks.io links
until we have hamilton.apache.org set up and running.

* Updates docs to reference Hamilton as Apache Hamilton

I spot checked this.

* Adds ability to build and publish docs

This does a few things:

1. Adds .github workflow to build things
2. Adds .asf.yaml that specifies that a site should be built and deployed.

No real design decisions, other than this seems to work and is low effort.

Squashed commits below:

Adds to asf.yaml and attempts to write to docs to branch (+4 squashed commits)
Squashed commits:
[e44ca55e] Adds incubating reference
[486c57fc] Adds pushing to asf-* branches

Will see if this works.
[4312df53] Fixes docs and creates PDF
[919ccc22] Adds github workflow to build docs

WIP commit.

* Adds incubating to main.md

* Changes references to hamilton.apache.org

This change updates links to the right documentation domain.

* Tries to make badges work

* Fixes whitespace

* Increase fetch depth for docs build in workflows

Was getting a too shallow warning. Gemini suggested
increasing the fetch depth - so I set it to 0 to check
out the whole repo.

* Adds link to PDF

* Found more places that I missed changing the domain

I missed these domain changes. Note the docs don't have
en/latest/ on them.

* Reduces overuse of Apache Hamilton

Since in most cases Hamilton suffices when describing concepts within
Hamilton.

examples/hamilton_ui/README.md, after:

# Apache Hamilton UI - Machine learning example

Learn how to use the `HamiltonTracker` and the Apache Hamilton UI to track a simple machine learning pipeline.

It also illustrates the following notions:

1. Splitting a pipeline into separate modules (e.g., data loading, feature enginering, model fitting)
2. Use `DataLoader` and `DataSaver` objects to load & save data and collect extra metadata in the UI
3. Use `@subdag` to fit different ML models with the same model training code in the same DAG run.


## Getting started
### Install the Apache Hamilton UI

First, you need to have the Apache Hamilton UI running. You can either `pip install` the Apache Hamilton UI (recommended) or run it as a Docker container.

#### Local Install
Install the Python dependencies:

```bash
pip install "sf-hamilton[ui,sdk]"
```
then launch the Apache Hamilton UI server:
```bash
hamilton ui
# python -m hamilton.cli.__main__ ui # on windows
```

#### Docker Install

See https://hamilton.apache.org/concepts/ui/ for details, here are the cliff notes:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/apache/hamilton
cd hamilton/ui/deployment
./run.sh
```
Then go to http://localhost:8242 to create (1) a username and (2) a project.
See [this video](https://youtu.be/DPfxlTwaNsM) for a walkthrough.

### Execute and track the pipeline

Now that you have the Apache Hamilton UI running, open another terminal tab to:

1. Ensure you have the right python dependencies installed.
```bash
cd hamilton/examples/hamilton_ui
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

2. Run the `run.py` script. Providing the username and project ID to be able to log to the Apache Hamilton UI.
```bash
python run.py --username <username> --project_id <project_id>
```
Once you've run that, run this:
```bash
python run.py --username <username> --project_id <project_id> --load-from-parquet
```

3. Explore results in the Apache Hamilton UI. Find your project under http://localhost:8242/dashboard/projects.

## Things to try:

1. Place an error in the code and see how it shows up in the Apache Hamilton UI. e.g. `raise ValueError("I'm an error")`.
2. In `models.py` change `"data_set": source("data_set_v1"),` to `"data_set": source("data_set_v2"),`, along with
what is requested in `run.py` (i.e. change/add saving `data_set_v2`) and see how the lineage changes in the Apache Hamilton UI.
3. Add a new feature and propagate it through the pipeline. E.g. add a new feature to `features.py` and then to a dataset.
Execute it and then compare the data observed in the Apache Hamilton UI against a prior run.
