examples/snowflake/hamilton_ui/README.md, before:

# Running the Hamilton & the Hamilton UI in Snowflake

This example is code for the ["Observability of Python code and application logic with Hamilton UI on Snowflake Container Services" post](https://medium.com/@pkantyka/observability-of-python-code-and-application-logic-with-hamilton-ui-on-snowflake-container-services-a26693b46635) by
[Greg Kantyka](https://medium.com/@pkantyka).

Here we show the code required to be packaged up for use on Snowflake:

1. Docker file that runs the Hamilton UI and a flask endpoint to exercise Hamilton code
2. my_functions.py - the Hamilton code that is exercised by the flask endpoint
3. pipeline_endpoint.py - the flask endpoint that exercises the Hamilton code

To run see:
 - snowflake.sql that contains all the SQL to create the necessary objects in Snowflake and exercise things.

For more details see ["Observability of Python code and application logic with Hamilton UI on Snowflake Container Services" post](https://medium.com/@pkantyka/observability-of-python-code-and-application-logic-with-hamilton-ui-on-snowflake-container-services-a26693b46635) by
[Greg Kantyka](https://medium.com/@pkantyka).

Commit message:

Replaces most links and Hamilton references (#1339)
This does I think most of the work required to shift to the new docs
by replacing links and naming where appropriate.

This is still missing critical parts that we need in our docs, e.g. the
standard Apache boilerplate ...


Squashed commits --
* Replaces most links

This does not replace the hamilton.dagworks.io links
until we have hamilton.apache.org set up and running.

* Updates docs to reference Hamilton as Apache Hamilton

I spot checked this.

* Adds ability to build and publish docs

This does a few things:

1. Adds .github workflow to build things
2. Adds .asf.yaml that specifies that a site should be built and deployed.

No real design decisions, other than this seems to work and is low effort.

Squashed commits below:

Adds to asf.yaml and attempts to write to docs to branch (+4 squashed commits)
Squashed commits:
[e44ca55e] Adds incubating reference
[486c57fc] Adds pushing to asf-* branches

Will see if this works.
[4312df53] Fixes docs and creates PDF
[919ccc22] Adds github workflow to build docs

WIP commit.

* Adds incubating to main.md

* Changes references to hamilton.apache.org

This change updates links to the right documentation domain.

* Tries to make badges work

* Fixes whitespace

* Increase fetch depth for docs build in workflows

Was getting a too shallow warning. Gemini suggested
increasing the fetch depth - so I set it to 0 to check
out the whole repo.

* Adds link to PDF

* Found more places that I missed changing the domain

I missed these domain changes. Note the docs don't have
en/latest/ on them.

* Reduces overuse of Apache Hamilton

Since in most cases Hamilton suffices when describing concepts within
Hamilton.

examples/snowflake/hamilton_ui/README.md, after:

# Running the Apache Hamilton & the Apache Hamilton UI in Snowflake

This example is code for the ["Observability of Python code and application logic with Apache Hamilton UI on Snowflake Container Services" post](https://medium.com/@pkantyka/observability-of-python-code-and-application-logic-with-hamilton-ui-on-snowflake-container-services-a26693b46635) by
[Greg Kantyka](https://medium.com/@pkantyka).

Here we show the code required to be packaged up for use on Snowflake:

1. Docker file that runs the Apache Hamilton UI and a flask endpoint to exercise Apache Hamilton code
2. my_functions.py - the Apache Hamilton code that is exercised by the flask endpoint
3. pipeline_endpoint.py - the flask endpoint that exercises the Apache Hamilton code

To run see:
 - snowflake.sql that contains all the SQL to create the necessary objects in Snowflake and exercise things.

For more details see ["Observability of Python code and application logic with Apache Hamilton UI on Snowflake Container Services" post](https://medium.com/@pkantyka/observability-of-python-code-and-application-logic-with-hamilton-ui-on-snowflake-container-services-a26693b46635) by
[Greg Kantyka](https://medium.com/@pkantyka).
