docs/how-tos/pre-commit-hooks.md, before:

# pre-commit hooks
## Use pre-commit hooks for safer Hamilton code changes

This page gives an introduction to pre-commit hooks and how to use custom hooks to validate your Hamilton code.

## What are pre-commit hooks?
A pre-commit hook is a script or command that's executed automatically before making a commit. The goal of these hooks is to standardize code formatting and catch erroneous code before being committed. For example, popular hooks include ensuring files have no syntax errors, sorting imports, and normalizing line breaks.

Note that it's different from testing, which focuses on the behavior of the code. You can think of pre-commit hooks as checks and formatting you would do everytime you save a file.

## Add pre-commit hooks to your project
Hooks are a mechanism of the `git` version control system. You can find your project's hooks under the `.git/hooks` directory (it might be hidden by default). There should be many files with the `.sample` extension that serve as example scripts.

The preferred way of working with pre-commit hooks is through the [pre-commit](https://pre-commit.com/) Python library. This library allows you to import and configure hooks for your repository with a `.pre-commit-config.yaml` file.

### Steps to get started
1. install the pre-commit library
    ```python
    pip install pre-commit
    ```

2. add a `.pre-commit-config.yaml` to your repository
    ```yaml
    # .pre-commit-config.yaml
    repos:
        # repository with hook definitions
    -   repo: https://github.com/pre-commit/pre-commit-hooks
        rev: v2.3.0  # release version of the repo
        hooks:  # list of hooks from the repo to include in this project
        -   id: end-of-file-fixer
        -   id: trailing-whitespace
        -   id: check-yaml
            args: ['--unsafe']  # some accept arguments

        # download another repository with hooks
    -   repo: https://github.com/psf/black
        rev: 22.10.0
        hooks:
        -   id: black
    ```

3. install the hooks defined in `.pre-commit-config.yaml`
    ```console
    pre-commit install
    ```
    Now, hooks will automatically run on `git commit`

4. to manually run hooks
    ```console
    pre-commit run --all-files
    ```

## Custom Hamilton pre-commit hooks
pre-commit hooks are great developer tools, but off-the-shelf solutions aren't aware of the Hamilton framework. Hence, we developed a pre-commit hook to help you author Hamilton dataflows! Under the hood, they leverage the `hamilton` CLI, so if you are unfamiliar with it, feel free to install it and view the `--help` messages.

```console
pip install sf-hamilton[cli]
hamilton --help
```

### Checking dataflow definition
Hamilton doesn't have many syntactic constraints, but there's a few things we want to catch:
- functions parameters and return are type annotated
- a node consistently has the same type (e.g., a parameter in multiple functions)
- functions with a name starting with underscore (`_`) are ignored from the dataflow
- functions with a `@config` decorator received a trailing double underscore with a suffix (e.g., `hello__weekday()`, `hello__weekend()`)

Instead of reimplementing this logic, we can try to build the Hamilton Driver with the command `hamilton build MODULES` and catch errors. This also ensures the verification is always in sync with the actual build mechanism. This hook will help prevent us from committing invalid dataflow definitions.

### Checking dataflow paths
A dataflow definition might be valid, but it might break paths in unexpected ways. The command `hamilton validate` (which internally uses `Driver.validate_execution()`) can check if a node is reachable.

For example, take a look at `my_module.py`, which contains the nodes `A, B, C`, and the changes between `v1` and `v2`.

```python
# my_module.py - v1
def A() -> int: ...

def B(A: int) -> float: ...

def C(A: int, B: float) -> None: ...

# driver code
dr = driver.Builder().with_mdoules(my_module).build()
dr.validate_execution(final_vars=["C"]) # <- success
```

```python
# my_module.py - v2
def B(X: int) -> float: ...

def C(A: int, B: float) -> None: ...

# driver code
dr = driver.Builder().with_mdoules(my_module).build()
dr.validate_execution(final_vars=["C"]) # <- failure. missing `A`
```

![alt text](_pre-commit/validate_changes.png)

In `v1`, the dataflow could be validated for `C` without any inputs. Now, a developer made `B` depend on `X` instead of `A` and removed `A`. This change accidentally impacted `C` which now depends on the external input `A`. Note that both `v1` and `v2` have a valid dataflow definition. To catch breaking changes to the path to `C`, we could use `hamilton validate --context context.json my_module.py` with the context:

```json
// context.json
{ "HAMILTON_FINAL_VARS": ["C"] }
// will call .validate_execution(final_vars["C"])
```

```{note}
pre-commit hooks can prevent commits from breaking a core path, but you should use unit and integration tests for more robust checks.
```

## Add Hamilton pre-commit to your project
We alluded to the relationship between pre-commit hooks and the `hamilton` command line tool. In fact, the basic hook is designed to take a list of `hamilton` commands and will execute them in order when hooks are triggered.

To use them, add this snippet to your `.pre-commit-config.yaml` and adapt it to your project:

```yaml
- repo: https://github.com/dagworks/hamilton-pre-commit
  rev: v0.1.2  # use a ref >= 0.1.2
  hooks:
  - id: cli-command
    name: Hamilton CLI command
    args: [  # list of CLI commands to execute
      hamilton build my_module.py,
      hamilton build my_module2.py,
      hamilton validate --context context.json my_module.py my_module2.py,
    ]
```

The above snippet would:
- check the dataflow definition of `my_module.py`
- check the dataflow definition of `my_module2.py`
- validate the execution path specified in `context.json` for dataflow composed of `my_module.py` and `my_module2.py`

You can pass any `hamilton` CLI command to the pre-commit hook, but it will only care about it succeeding or failing.

Commit message:

Replaces most links and Hamilton references (#1339)
This does I think most of the work required to shift to the new docs
by replacing links and naming where appropriate.

This is still missing critical parts that we need in our docs, e.g. the
standard Apache boilerplate ...


Squashed commits --
* Replaces most links

This does not replace the hamilton.dagworks.io links
until we have hamilton.apache.org set up and running.

* Updates docs to reference Hamilton as Apache Hamilton

I spot checked this.

* Adds ability to build and publish docs

This does a few things:

1. Adds .github workflow to build things
2. Adds .asf.yaml that specifies that a site should be built and deployed.

No real design decisions, other than this seems to work and is low effort.

Squashed commits below:

Adds to asf.yaml and attempts to write to docs to branch (+4 squashed commits)
Squashed commits:
[e44ca55e] Adds incubating reference
[486c57fc] Adds pushing to asf-* branches

Will see if this works.
[4312df53] Fixes docs and creates PDF
[919ccc22] Adds github workflow to build docs

WIP commit.

* Adds incubating to main.md

* Changes references to hamilton.apache.org

This change updates links to the right documentation domain.

* Tries to make badges work

* Fixes whitespace

* Increase fetch depth for docs build in workflows

Was getting a too shallow warning. Gemini suggested
increasing the fetch depth - so I set it to 0 to check
out the whole repo.

* Adds link to PDF

* Found more places that I missed changing the domain

I missed these domain changes. Note the docs don't have
en/latest/ on them.

* Reduces overuse of Apache Hamilton

Since in most cases Hamilton suffices when describing concepts within
Hamilton.

docs/how-tos/pre-commit-hooks.md, after:

# pre-commit hooks
## Use pre-commit hooks for safer Apache Hamilton code changes

This page gives an introduction to pre-commit hooks and how to use custom hooks to validate your Apache Hamilton code.

## What are pre-commit hooks?
A pre-commit hook is a script or command that's executed automatically before making a commit. The goal of these hooks is to standardize code formatting and catch erroneous code before being committed. For example, popular hooks include ensuring files have no syntax errors, sorting imports, and normalizing line breaks.

Note that it's different from testing, which focuses on the behavior of the code. You can think of pre-commit hooks as checks and formatting you would do everytime you save a file.

## Add pre-commit hooks to your project
Hooks are a mechanism of the `git` version control system. You can find your project's hooks under the `.git/hooks` directory (it might be hidden by default). There should be many files with the `.sample` extension that serve as example scripts.

The preferred way of working with pre-commit hooks is through the [pre-commit](https://pre-commit.com/) Python library. This library allows you to import and configure hooks for your repository with a `.pre-commit-config.yaml` file.

### Steps to get started
1. install the pre-commit library
    ```python
    pip install pre-commit
    ```

2. add a `.pre-commit-config.yaml` to your repository
    ```yaml
    # .pre-commit-config.yaml
    repos:
        # repository with hook definitions
    -   repo: https://github.com/pre-commit/pre-commit-hooks
        rev: v2.3.0  # release version of the repo
        hooks:  # list of hooks from the repo to include in this project
        -   id: end-of-file-fixer
        -   id: trailing-whitespace
        -   id: check-yaml
            args: ['--unsafe']  # some accept arguments

        # download another repository with hooks
    -   repo: https://github.com/psf/black
        rev: 22.10.0
        hooks:
        -   id: black
    ```

3. install the hooks defined in `.pre-commit-config.yaml`
    ```console
    pre-commit install
    ```
    Now, hooks will automatically run on `git commit`

4. to manually run hooks
    ```console
    pre-commit run --all-files
    ```

## Custom Apache Hamilton pre-commit hooks
pre-commit hooks are great developer tools, but off-the-shelf solutions aren't aware of the Apache Hamilton framework. Hence, we developed a pre-commit hook to help you author Apache Hamilton dataflows! Under the hood, they leverage the `hamilton` CLI, so if you are unfamiliar with it, feel free to install it and view the `--help` messages.

```console
pip install sf-hamilton[cli]
hamilton --help
```

### Checking dataflow definition
Apache Hamilton doesn't have many syntactic constraints, but there's a few things we want to catch:
- functions parameters and return are type annotated
- a node consistently has the same type (e.g., a parameter in multiple functions)
- functions with a name starting with underscore (`_`) are ignored from the dataflow
- functions with a `@config` decorator received a trailing double underscore with a suffix (e.g., `hello__weekday()`, `hello__weekend()`)

Instead of reimplementing this logic, we can try to build the Hamilton Driver with the command `hamilton build MODULES` and catch errors. This also ensures the verification is always in sync with the actual build mechanism. This hook will help prevent us from committing invalid dataflow definitions.

### Checking dataflow paths
A dataflow definition might be valid, but it might break paths in unexpected ways. The command `hamilton validate` (which internally uses `Driver.validate_execution()`) can check if a node is reachable.

For example, take a look at `my_module.py`, which contains the nodes `A, B, C`, and the changes between `v1` and `v2`.

```python
# my_module.py - v1
def A() -> int: ...

def B(A: int) -> float: ...

def C(A: int, B: float) -> None: ...

# driver code
dr = driver.Builder().with_mdoules(my_module).build()
dr.validate_execution(final_vars=["C"]) # <- success
```

```python
# my_module.py - v2
def B(X: int) -> float: ...

def C(A: int, B: float) -> None: ...

# driver code
dr = driver.Builder().with_mdoules(my_module).build()
dr.validate_execution(final_vars=["C"]) # <- failure. missing `A`
```

![alt text](_pre-commit/validate_changes.png)

In `v1`, the dataflow could be validated for `C` without any inputs. Now, a developer made `B` depend on `X` instead of `A` and removed `A`. This change accidentally impacted `C` which now depends on the external input `A`. Note that both `v1` and `v2` have a valid dataflow definition. To catch breaking changes to the path to `C`, we could use `hamilton validate --context context.json my_module.py` with the context:

```json
// context.json
{ "HAMILTON_FINAL_VARS": ["C"] }
// will call .validate_execution(final_vars["C"])
```

```{note}
pre-commit hooks can prevent commits from breaking a core path, but you should use unit and integration tests for more robust checks.
```

## Add Apache Hamilton pre-commit to your project
We alluded to the relationship between pre-commit hooks and the `hamilton` command line tool. In fact, the basic hook is designed to take a list of `hamilton` commands and will execute them in order when hooks are triggered.

To use them, add this snippet to your `.pre-commit-config.yaml` and adapt it to your project:

```yaml
- repo: https://github.com/dagworks/hamilton-pre-commit
  rev: v0.1.2  # use a ref >= 0.1.2
  hooks:
  - id: cli-command
    name: Apache Hamilton CLI command
    args: [  # list of CLI commands to execute
      hamilton build my_module.py,
      hamilton build my_module2.py,
      hamilton validate --context context.json my_module.py my_module2.py,
    ]
```

The above snippet would:
- check the dataflow definition of `my_module.py`
- check the dataflow definition of `my_module2.py`
- validate the execution path specified in `context.json` for dataflow composed of `my_module.py` and `my_module2.py`

You can pass any `hamilton` CLI command to the pre-commit hook, but it will only care about it succeeding or failing.
