examples/people_data_labs/README.md, before:

# People Data Labs

[People Data Labs](https://www.peopledatalabs.com/) is a data provider that offers several data APIs for person enrichment & search, company enrichment & search, and IP enrichment.

This example showcases how Hamilton can help you write modular data transformations.

![](all_functions.png)
> Dataflow visualization generated directly from the Hamilton code.

## Content
- `notebook.ipynb` is a step-by-step introduction to Hamilton. Start there.
- `analysis.py` contains data transformations used by `run.py`. They're the same as the ones defined in `notebook.ipynb`.
- `run.py` contains code to execute the analysis.


## Set up
1. Create a virtual environment and activate it
    ```console
    python -m venv venv && . venv/bin/active
    ```

2. Install requirements
    ```console
    pip install -r requirements.txt
    ```

3. Download the data with this command (it should take ~3mins)
    ```console
    python download_data.py
    ```

4. Visit the notebook or execute the script
    ```console
    python run.py
    ```

You can even run this example in Google Colab:
[![Open In Colab](https://colab.research.google.com/assets/colab-badge.svg)
](https://colab.research.google.com/github/dagworks-inc/hamilton/blob/main/examples/people_data_labs/notebook.ipynb)



## Resources
- [PDL Blog](https://blog.peopledatalabs.com/) and [PDL Recipes](https://docs.peopledatalabs.com/recipes)
- [Interactive Hamilton training](https://www.tryhamilton.dev/hamilton-basics/jumping-in)
- [Hamilton documentation](https://hamilton.dagworks.io/en/latest/concepts/node/)
- more [Hamilton code examples](https://github.com/DAGWorks-Inc/hamilton/tree/main/examples) and integrations with Python tools.

Commit message:

Replaces most links and Hamilton references (#1339)
This does I think most of the work required to shift to the new docs
by replacing links and naming where appropriate.

This is still missing critical parts that we need in our docs, e.g. the
standard Apache boilerplate ...


Squashed commits --
* Replaces most links

This does not replace the hamilton.dagworks.io links
until we have hamilton.apache.org set up and running.

* Updates docs to reference Hamilton as Apache Hamilton

I spot checked this.

* Adds ability to build and publish docs

This does a few things:

1. Adds .github workflow to build things
2. Adds .asf.yaml that specifies that a site should be built and deployed.

No real design decisions, other than this seems to work and is low effort.

Squashed commits below:

Adds to asf.yaml and attempts to write to docs to branch (+4 squashed commits)
Squashed commits:
[e44ca55e] Adds incubating reference
[486c57fc] Adds pushing to asf-* branches

Will see if this works.
[4312df53] Fixes docs and creates PDF
[919ccc22] Adds github workflow to build docs

WIP commit.

* Adds incubating to main.md

* Changes references to hamilton.apache.org

This change updates links to the right documentation domain.

* Tries to make badges work

* Fixes whitespace

* Increase fetch depth for docs build in workflows

Was getting a too shallow warning. Gemini suggested
increasing the fetch depth - so I set it to 0 to check
out the whole repo.

* Adds link to PDF

* Found more places that I missed changing the domain

I missed these domain changes. Note the docs don't have
en/latest/ on them.

* Reduces overuse of Apache Hamilton

Since in most cases Hamilton suffices when describing concepts within
Hamilton.

examples/people_data_labs/README.md, after:

# People Data Labs

[People Data Labs](https://www.peopledatalabs.com/) is a data provider that offers several data APIs for person enrichment & search, company enrichment & search, and IP enrichment.

This example showcases how Apache Hamilton can help you write modular data transformations.

![](all_functions.png)
> Dataflow visualization generated directly from the Apache Hamilton code.

## Content
- `notebook.ipynb` is a step-by-step introduction to Apache Hamilton. Start there.
- `analysis.py` contains data transformations used by `run.py`. They're the same as the ones defined in `notebook.ipynb`.
- `run.py` contains code to execute the analysis.


## Set up
1. Create a virtual environment and activate it
    ```console
    python -m venv venv && . venv/bin/active
    ```

2. Install requirements
    ```console
    pip install -r requirements.txt
    ```

3. Download the data with this command (it should take ~3mins)
    ```console
    python download_data.py
    ```

4. Visit the notebook or execute the script
    ```console
    python run.py
    ```

You can even run this example in Google Colab:
[![Open In Colab](https://colab.research.google.com/assets/colab-badge.svg)
](https://colab.research.google.com/github/dagworks-inc/hamilton/blob/main/examples/people_data_labs/notebook.ipynb)



## Resources
- [PDL Blog](https://blog.peopledatalabs.com/) and [PDL Recipes](https://docs.peopledatalabs.com/recipes)
- [Interactive Apache Hamilton training](https://www.tryhamilton.dev/hamilton-basics/jumping-in)
- [Apache Hamilton documentation](https://hamilton.apache.org/concepts/node/)
- more [Apache Hamilton code examples](https://github.com/apache/hamilton/tree/main/examples) and integrations with Python tools.
