docs/code-comparisons/airflow.rst, before:

======================
Airflow
======================

For more details see this `Hamilton + Airflow blog post <https://blog.dagworks.io/p/supercharge-your-airflow-dag-with>`_.

**TL;DR:**

1. Hamilton complements Airflow. It'll help you write better, more modular, and testable code.
2. Hamilton does not replace Airflow.


High-level differences:
-----------------------

* Hamilton is a micro-orchestator. Airflow is a macro-orchestrator.
* Hamilton is a Python library standardizing how you express python pipelines, while Airflow is a complete platform and
  system for scheduling and executing pipelines.
* Hamilton focuses on providing a lightweight, low dependency, flexible way to define data pipelines as Python functions,
  whereas Airflow is a whole system that comes with a web-based UI, scheduler, and executor.
* Hamilton pipelines are defined using pure Python code, that can be run anywhere that Python runs. While Airflow uses
  Python to describe a DAG, this DAG can only be run by the Airflow system.
* Hamilton complements Airflow, and you can use Hamilton within Airflow. But the reverse is not true.
* You can use Hamilton directly in a Jupyter Notebook, or Python web-service. You can't do this with Airflow.


Code examples:
--------------
Looking at the two examples below, you can see that Hamilton is a more lightweight and flexible way to define data pipelines.
There is no scheduling information, etc required to run the code because Hamilton runs the pipeline in the same process as the
caller. This makes it easier to test and debug pipelines. Airflow, on the other hand, is a complete system for scheduling and
executing pipelines. It is more complex to set up and run. Note: If you stuck the contents of `run.py` in a function within
the `example_dag.py`, the Hamilton pipeline could be used in the Airflow PythonOperator!

Hamilton:
_________
The below code here shows how you can define a simple data pipeline using Hamilton. The pipeline consists of three functions
that are executed in sequence. The pipeline is defined in a module called `pipeline.py`, and then executed in a separate
script called `run.py`, which imports the pipeline module and executes it.

.. code-block:: python

    # pipeline.py
    def raw_data() -> list[int]:
        return [1, 2, 3]

    def processed_data(raw_data: list[int]) -> list[int]:
        return [x * 2 for x in data]

    def load_data(process_data: list[int], client: SomeClient) -> dict:
        metadata = client.send_data(process_data)
        return metadata

    # run.py -- this is the script that executes the pipeline
    import pipeline
    from hamilton import driver
    dr = driver.Builder().with_modules(pipeline).build()
    metadata = dr.execute(['load_data'], inputs=dict(client=SomeClient()))

Airflow:
________
The below code shows how you can define the same pipeline using Airflow. The pipeline consists of three tasks that are executed
in sequence. The entire pipeline is defined in a module called `example_dag.py`, and then executed by the Airflow scheduler.

.. code-block:: python

    # example_dag.py
    from airflow import DAG
    from airflow.operators.python_operator import PythonOperator
    from datetime import datetime, timedelta

    default_args = {
        'owner': 'airflow',
        'depends_on_past': False,
        'start_date': datetime(2023, 1, 1),
        'email_on_failure': False,
        'email_on_retry': False,
        'retries': 1,
        'retry_delay': timedelta(minutes=5),
    }

    dag = DAG(
        'example_dag',
        default_args=default_args,
        description='A simple DAG',
        schedule_interval=timedelta(days=1),
    )

    def extract_data():
        return [1, 2, 3]

    def transform_data(data):
        return [x * 2 for x in data]

    def load_data(data):
        client = SomeClient()
        client.send_data(data)

    extract_task = PythonOperator(
        task_id='extract_data',
        python_callable=extract_data,
        dag=dag,
    )

    transform_task = PythonOperator(
        task_id='transform_data',
        python_callable=transform_data,
        op_args=['{{ ti.xcom_pull(task_ids="extract_data") }}'],
        dag=dag,
    )

    load_task = PythonOperator(
        task_id='load_data',
        python_callable=load_data,
        op_args=['{{ ti.xcom_pull(task_ids="transform_data") }}'],
        dag=dag,
    )

    extract_task >> transform_task >> load_task

Commit message:

Replaces most links and Hamilton references (#1339)
This does I think most of the work required to shift to the new docs
by replacing links and naming where appropriate.

This is still missing critical parts that we need in our docs, e.g. the
standard Apache boilerplate ...


Squashed commits --
* Replaces most links

This does not replace the hamilton.dagworks.io links
until we have hamilton.apache.org set up and running.

* Updates docs to reference Hamilton as Apache Hamilton

I spot checked this.

* Adds ability to build and publish docs

This does a few things:

1. Adds .github workflow to build things
2. Adds .asf.yaml that specifies that a site should be built and deployed.

No real design decisions, other than this seems to work and is low effort.

Squashed commits below:

Adds to asf.yaml and attempts to write to docs to branch (+4 squashed commits)
Squashed commits:
[e44ca55e] Adds incubating reference
[486c57fc] Adds pushing to asf-* branches

Will see if this works.
[4312df53] Fixes docs and creates PDF
[919ccc22] Adds github workflow to build docs

WIP commit.

* Adds incubating to main.md

* Changes references to hamilton.apache.org

This change updates links to the right documentation domain.

* Tries to make badges work

* Fixes whitespace

* Increase fetch depth for docs build in workflows

Was getting a too shallow warning. Gemini suggested
increasing the fetch depth - so I set it to 0 to check
out the whole repo.

* Adds link to PDF

* Found more places that I missed changing the domain

I missed these domain changes. Note the docs don't have
en/latest/ on them.

* Reduces overuse of Apache Hamilton

Since in most cases Hamilton suffices when describing concepts within
Hamilton.

docs/code-comparisons/airflow.rst, after:

======================
Airflow
======================

For more details see this `Apache Hamilton + Airflow blog post <https://blog.dagworks.io/p/supercharge-your-airflow-dag-with>`_.

**TL;DR:**

1. Apache Hamilton complements Airflow. It'll help you write better, more modular, and testable code.
2. Apache Hamilton does not replace Airflow.


High-level differences:
-----------------------

* Apache Hamilton is a micro-orchestator. Airflow is a macro-orchestrator.
* Apache Hamilton is a Python library standardizing how you express python pipelines, while Airflow is a complete platform and
  system for scheduling and executing pipelines.
* Apache Hamilton focuses on providing a lightweight, low dependency, flexible way to define data pipelines as Python functions,
  whereas Airflow is a whole system that comes with a web-based UI, scheduler, and executor.
* Apache Hamilton pipelines are defined using pure Python code, that can be run anywhere that Python runs. While Airflow uses
  Python to describe a DAG, this DAG can only be run by the Airflow system.
* Apache Hamilton complements Airflow, and you can use Apache Hamilton within Airflow. But the reverse is not true.
* You can use Apache Hamilton directly in a Jupyter Notebook, or Python web-service. You can't do this with Airflow.


Code examples:
--------------
Looking at the two examples below, you can see that Apache Hamilton is a more lightweight and flexible way to define data pipelines.
There is no scheduling information, etc required to run the code because Apache Hamilton runs the pipeline in the same process as the
caller. This makes it easier to test and debug pipelines. Airflow, on the other hand, is a complete system for scheduling and
executing pipelines. It is more complex to set up and run. Note: If you stuck the contents of `run.py` in a function within
the `example_dag.py`, the Apache Hamilton pipeline could be used in the Airflow PythonOperator!

Apache Hamilton:
________________
The below code here shows how you can define a simple data pipeline using Apache Hamilton. The pipeline consists of three functions
that are executed in sequence. The pipeline is defined in a module called `pipeline.py`, and then executed in a separate
script called `run.py`, which imports the pipeline module and executes it.

.. code-block:: python

    # pipeline.py
    def raw_data() -> list[int]:
        return [1, 2, 3]

    def processed_data(raw_data: list[int]) -> list[int]:
        return [x * 2 for x in data]

    def load_data(process_data: list[int], client: SomeClient) -> dict:
        metadata = client.send_data(process_data)
        return metadata

    # run.py -- this is the script that executes the pipeline
    import pipeline
    from hamilton import driver
    dr = driver.Builder().with_modules(pipeline).build()
    metadata = dr.execute(['load_data'], inputs=dict(client=SomeClient()))

Airflow:
________
The below code shows how you can define the same pipeline using Airflow. The pipeline consists of three tasks that are executed
in sequence. The entire pipeline is defined in a module called `example_dag.py`, and then executed by the Airflow scheduler.

.. code-block:: python

    # example_dag.py
    from airflow import DAG
    from airflow.operators.python_operator import PythonOperator
    from datetime import datetime, timedelta

    default_args = {
        'owner': 'airflow',
        'depends_on_past': False,
        'start_date': datetime(2023, 1, 1),
        'email_on_failure': False,
        'email_on_retry': False,
        'retries': 1,
        'retry_delay': timedelta(minutes=5),
    }

    dag = DAG(
        'example_dag',
        default_args=default_args,
        description='A simple DAG',
        schedule_interval=timedelta(days=1),
    )

    def extract_data():
        return [1, 2, 3]

    def transform_data(data):
        return [x * 2 for x in data]

    def load_data(data):
        client = SomeClient()
        client.send_data(data)

    extract_task = PythonOperator(
        task_id='extract_data',
        python_callable=extract_data,
        dag=dag,
    )

    transform_task = PythonOperator(
        task_id='transform_data',
        python_callable=transform_data,
        op_args=['{{ ti.xcom_pull(task_ids="extract_data") }}'],
        dag=dag,
    )

    load_task = PythonOperator(
        task_id='load_data',
        python_callable=load_data,
        op_args=['{{ ti.xcom_pull(task_ids="transform_data") }}'],
        dag=dag,
    )

    extract_task >> transform_task >> load_task
