examples/experiment_management/README.md, before:

# Hamilton Experiment Manager

Add a hook to your Hamilton Driver to log runs and visualize artifacts and metadata! The server is built using FastAPI + FastUI allowing to easily integrate the server within your app or extend the UI.

<p align="center">
    <img src="./showcase.gif" height=600, width=auto/>
</p>

## Features
- 📝 Track run metadata (config, inputs, code version, etc.)
- 📦 Generate directories to store your run artifacts
- 📡 Launch a local server to view and explore your experiments

## Installation
Use `pip install sf-hamilton[experiments]` to install both the hook and the server with their dependencies

## How to use the ExperimentTracker hook
The `ExperimentTracker` hook can be added to your Hamilton Driver definition to automatically log metadata about the run and materialized results.

1. Create the `ExperimentTracker` hook object:
    - `experiment_name`: name to organize related runs. Is used to create directories and displayed in the UI
    - `base_directory`: path where the metadata cache and subdirectories to store artifacts will be created. Default is `./experiments`.
2. Create the Hamilton Driver and pass the `ExperimentTracker` to `with_adapters()` method
3. Define materializers for each artifacts you care about. The UI provides rich support for `parquet`, `csv`, and `json`.
    - ⚠ Make sure to use relative paths (ones that don't start with `/`) for artifacts to be stored in run directories.
4. Call `dr.materialize()` to launch run for which metadata and artifacts will be tracked.
5. (Optional) Use `dr.visualize_materialization()` to visualize the dataflow and set `output_file_path` with the run directory `tracker_hook.run_directory`

### Running the example

To run in the example directory, do the following:

```bash
cd examples/experiment_management
pip install -r requirements.txt # or use your favorite env manager
python run.py
h_experiments # initialize/run the server
```

Then navigate to `http://localhost:8123` to view the experiment manager! Then you'll want to integrate it into your own workflow.

### Integrating your own
```python
from hamilton import driver
from hamilton.plugins import h_experiments

import my_functions  # <- your Hamilton module


# 1. create the hook
tracker_hook = h_experiments.ExperimentTracker(
    experiment_name="hello-world",
    base_directory="/path/to/experiments",
)

# 2. create driver with modules and hook
dr = (
    driver.Builder()
    .with_modules(my_functions)
    .with_adapters(tracker_hook)
    .build()
)

# 3. define materializers (absolute or relative path)
materializers = [
    # notice the relative paths (don't start with "/")
    to.json(
        id="model_performance__json",
        dependencies=["model_performance"],
        path="./model_performance.json",
    ),
    to.parquet(
        id="training_data__parquet",
        dependencies=["training_data"],
        path="./training_data.parquet",
    ),
]

# 4. launch run using `.materialize()`
dr.materialize(*materializers)

# 5. (optional) visualize materialization and store the figure
#               under the `tracker_hook.run_directory` path
dr.visualize_materialization(
    *materializers,
    output_file_path=f"{tracker_hook.run_directory}/dag",
)
```

## How to use the experiment server
The experiment server is a local FastAPI server that reads the run metadata cache and mounts the `base_directory` to view and explore results. The frontend uses FastUI to create a React interface from Python.

### Start the FastAPI server
```
h_experiments
```

You should see in the terminal:
```
INFO:     Started server process [24113]
INFO:     Waiting for application startup.
INFO:     Application startup complete.
INFO:     Uvicorn running on http://127.0.0.1:8123 (Press CTRL+C to quit)
```
### Set the experiments directory
```
h_experiments $/path/to/base_directory
```

You can use an absolute or relative path. Default is `./experiments`

### Set host and port
```
h_experiments --host $HOST --port $PORT
```
Defaults are `127.0.0.1` and `8123`

## What's next?
Let us know how you find the experiment manager and features you'd like to see! This project is still early/experimental and there are several interesting avenues:
- Materialize artifacts to cloud storage
- User interface to view node-level code diffs
- Performance profiling of runs
- User interface to launch runs

Given this is a FastAPI server, you can easily extend it yourself and mount it as a subroute for your own application!

Commit message:

Replaces most links and Hamilton references (#1339)
This does I think most of the work required to shift to the new docs
by replacing links and naming where appropriate.

This is still missing critical parts that we need in our docs, e.g. the
standard Apache boilerplate ...


Squashed commits --
* Replaces most links

This does not replace the hamilton.dagworks.io links
until we have hamilton.apache.org set up and running.

* Updates docs to reference Hamilton as Apache Hamilton

I spot checked this.

* Adds ability to build and publish docs

This does a few things:

1. Adds .github workflow to build things
2. Adds .asf.yaml that specifies that a site should be built and deployed.

No real design decisions, other than this seems to work and is low effort.

Squashed commits below:

Adds to asf.yaml and attempts to write to docs to branch (+4 squashed commits)
Squashed commits:
[e44ca55e] Adds incubating reference
[486c57fc] Adds pushing to asf-* branches

Will see if this works.
[4312df53] Fixes docs and creates PDF
[919ccc22] Adds github workflow to build docs

WIP commit.

* Adds incubating to main.md

* Changes references to hamilton.apache.org

This change updates links to the right documentation domain.

* Tries to make badges work

* Fixes whitespace

* Increase fetch depth for docs build in workflows

Was getting a too shallow warning. Gemini suggested
increasing the fetch depth - so I set it to 0 to check
out the whole repo.

* Adds link to PDF

* Found more places that I missed changing the domain

I missed these domain changes. Note the docs don't have
en/latest/ on them.

* Reduces overuse of Apache Hamilton

Since in most cases Hamilton suffices when describing concepts within
Hamilton.

examples/experiment_management/README.md, after:

# Apache Hamilton Experiment Manager

Add a hook to your Apache Hamilton Driver to log runs and visualize artifacts and metadata! The server is built using FastAPI + FastUI allowing to easily integrate the server within your app or extend the UI.

<p align="center">
    <img src="./showcase.gif" height=600, width=auto/>
</p>

## Features
- 📝 Track run metadata (config, inputs, code version, etc.)
- 📦 Generate directories to store your run artifacts
- 📡 Launch a local server to view and explore your experiments

## Installation
Use `pip install sf-hamilton[experiments]` to install both the hook and the server with their dependencies

## How to use the ExperimentTracker hook
The `ExperimentTracker` hook can be added to your Apache Hamilton Driver definition to automatically log metadata about the run and materialized results.

1. Create the `ExperimentTracker` hook object:
    - `experiment_name`: name to organize related runs. Is used to create directories and displayed in the UI
    - `base_directory`: path where the metadata cache and subdirectories to store artifacts will be created. Default is `./experiments`.
2. Create the Apache Hamilton Driver and pass the `ExperimentTracker` to `with_adapters()` method
3. Define materializers for each artifacts you care about. The UI provides rich support for `parquet`, `csv`, and `json`.
    - ⚠ Make sure to use relative paths (ones that don't start with `/`) for artifacts to be stored in run directories.
4. Call `dr.materialize()` to launch run for which metadata and artifacts will be tracked.
5. (Optional) Use `dr.visualize_materialization()` to visualize the dataflow and set `output_file_path` with the run directory `tracker_hook.run_directory`

### Running the example

To run in the example directory, do the following:

```bash
cd examples/experiment_management
pip install -r requirements.txt # or use your favorite env manager
python run.py
h_experiments # initialize/run the server
```

Then navigate to `http://localhost:8123` to view the experiment manager! Then you'll want to integrate it into your own workflow.

### Integrating your own
```python
from hamilton import driver
from hamilton.plugins import h_experiments

import my_functions  # <- your Apache Hamilton module


# 1. create the hook
tracker_hook = h_experiments.ExperimentTracker(
    experiment_name="hello-world",
    base_directory="/path/to/experiments",
)

# 2. create driver with modules and hook
dr = (
    driver.Builder()
    .with_modules(my_functions)
    .with_adapters(tracker_hook)
    .build()
)

# 3. define materializers (absolute or relative path)
materializers = [
    # notice the relative paths (don't start with "/")
    to.json(
        id="model_performance__json",
        dependencies=["model_performance"],
        path="./model_performance.json",
    ),
    to.parquet(
        id="training_data__parquet",
        dependencies=["training_data"],
        path="./training_data.parquet",
    ),
]

# 4. launch run using `.materialize()`
dr.materialize(*materializers)

# 5. (optional) visualize materialization and store the figure
#               under the `tracker_hook.run_directory` path
dr.visualize_materialization(
    *materializers,
    output_file_path=f"{tracker_hook.run_directory}/dag",
)
```

## How to use the experiment server
The experiment server is a local FastAPI server that reads the run metadata cache and mounts the `base_directory` to view and explore results. The frontend uses FastUI to create a React interface from Python.

### Start the FastAPI server
```
h_experiments
```

You should see in the terminal:
```
INFO:     Started server process [24113]
INFO:     Waiting for application startup.
INFO:     Application startup complete.
INFO:     Uvicorn running on http://127.0.0.1:8123 (Press CTRL+C to quit)
```
### Set the experiments directory
```
h_experiments $/path/to/base_directory
```

You can use an absolute or relative path. Default is `./experiments`

### Set host and port
```
h_experiments --host $HOST --port $PORT
```
Defaults are `127.0.0.1` and `8123`

## What's next?
Let us know how you find the experiment manager and features you'd like to see! This project is still early/experimental and there are several interesting avenues:
- Materialize artifacts to cloud storage
- User interface to view node-level code diffs
- Performance profiling of runs
- User interface to launch runs

Given this is a FastAPI server, you can easily extend it yourself and mount it as a subroute for your own application!
