examples/spark/README.md, before:


# Scaling Hamilton on Spark
## Pyspark

If you're using pyspark, Hamilton allows for natural manipulation of pyspark dataframes,
with some special constructs for managing DAGs of UDFs.

See the examples in `pyspark` & `world_of_warcraft` and `tpc-h` to learn more.

## Pandas
If you're using Pandas, Hamilton scales by using Koalas on Spark.
Koalas became part of Spark officially in Spark 3.2, and was renamed Pandas on Spark.
The example in `pandas_on_spark` here assumes that.

## Pyspark UDFs
If you're not using Pandas, then you can use Hamilton to manage and organize your pyspark UDFs.
See the example in `pyspark_udfs`.

Note: we're looking to expand coverage and support for more Spark use cases. Please come find us, or open an issue,
if you have a use case that you'd like to see supported!

## Caveats

Hamilton's type-checking doesn't inherently work with spark connect, which can swap out different types of dataframes that
are not part of the same subclass. Thus when you are passing in a spark session or spark dataframe as an input,
you can use the `SparkInputValidator` (available by instantiation or access of the static field `h_spark.SPARK_INPUT_CHECK`).

```python
from hamilton import driver
from hamilton.plugins import h_spark

dr = driver.Builder().with_modules(...).with_adapters(h_spark.SPARK_INPUT_CHECK).build()
```

Commit message:

Replaces most links and Hamilton references (#1339)
This does I think most of the work required to shift to the new docs
by replacing links and naming where appropriate.

This is still missing critical parts that we need in our docs, e.g. the
standard Apache boilerplate ...


Squashed commits --
* Replaces most links

This does not replace the hamilton.dagworks.io links
until we have hamilton.apache.org set up and running.

* Updates docs to reference Hamilton as Apache Hamilton

I spot checked this.

* Adds ability to build and publish docs

This does a few things:

1. Adds .github workflow to build things
2. Adds .asf.yaml that specifies that a site should be built and deployed.

No real design decisions, other than this seems to work and is low effort.

Squashed commits below:

Adds to asf.yaml and attempts to write to docs to branch (+4 squashed commits)
Squashed commits:
[e44ca55e] Adds incubating reference
[486c57fc] Adds pushing to asf-* branches

Will see if this works.
[4312df53] Fixes docs and creates PDF
[919ccc22] Adds github workflow to build docs

WIP commit.

* Adds incubating to main.md

* Changes references to hamilton.apache.org

This change updates links to the right documentation domain.

* Tries to make badges work

* Fixes whitespace

* Increase fetch depth for docs build in workflows

Was getting a too shallow warning. Gemini suggested
increasing the fetch depth - so I set it to 0 to check
out the whole repo.

* Adds link to PDF

* Found more places that I missed changing the domain

I missed these domain changes. Note the docs don't have
en/latest/ on them.

* Reduces overuse of Apache Hamilton

Since in most cases Hamilton suffices when describing concepts within
Hamilton.

examples/spark/README.md, after:


# Scaling Apache Hamilton on Spark
## Pyspark

If you're using pyspark, Apache Hamilton allows for natural manipulation of pyspark dataframes,
with some special constructs for managing DAGs of UDFs.

See the examples in `pyspark` & `world_of_warcraft` and `tpc-h` to learn more.

## Pandas
If you're using Pandas, Apache Hamilton scales by using Koalas on Spark.
Koalas became part of Spark officially in Spark 3.2, and was renamed Pandas on Spark.
The example in `pandas_on_spark` here assumes that.

## Pyspark UDFs
If you're not using Pandas, then you can use Apache Hamilton to manage and organize your pyspark UDFs.
See the example in `pyspark_udfs`.

Note: we're looking to expand coverage and support for more Spark use cases. Please come find us, or open an issue,
if you have a use case that you'd like to see supported!

## Caveats

Apache Hamilton's type-checking doesn't inherently work with spark connect, which can swap out different types of dataframes that
are not part of the same subclass. Thus when you are passing in a spark session or spark dataframe as an input,
you can use the `SparkInputValidator` (available by instantiation or access of the static field `h_spark.SPARK_INPUT_CHECK`).

```python
from hamilton import driver
from hamilton.plugins import h_spark

dr = driver.Builder().with_modules(...).with_adapters(h_spark.SPARK_INPUT_CHECK).build()
```
