docs/hamilton-ui/ui.rst, before:

--------------------
UI Overview
--------------------

Hamilton comes with a fully open-source UI that can be run both for local deployment and on a remote server.
The UI consists of the following features:

1. Telemetry for hamilton executions -- both on the history of executions and the data itself.
2. A feature/artifact catalog for browsing/connecting executions of nodes -> results.
3. A dataflow (i.e. DAG) visualizer for exploring and looking at your code, and determining lineage.
4. A project explorer for viewing curating projects and viewing versions of your Hamilton dataflows.

In short, the Hamilton UI aims to combine a large swath of MLOps/data observability systems in one simple application.

.. image:: ../_static/hamilton_ui.jpeg
    :alt: Hamilton UI

---

The Hamilton UI has two modes:
1. Run locally using sqlite3
2. Run on docker images with postgres (meant for deployment)

----------
Local Mode
----------

To run the hamilton UI in local mode, you can do the following:

.. code-block:: bash

    pip install "sf-hamilton[ui,sdk]"
    hamilton ui
    # python -m hamilton.cli.__main__ ui # on windows

This will launch a browser window in localhost:8241. You can then navigate to the UI and start using it!
While this can potentially handle a small production workflow, you may want to run on postgres with a separate frontend/backend/db
for full scalability and a multi-read/write db.

--------------------
Docker/Deployed Mode
--------------------

The Hamilton UI can be contained within a set of Docker images. You launch with `docker-compose <https://docs.docker.com/compose/>`_, and it will start up the UI, the backend server,
and a Postgres database. If you'd like a quick overview of some of the features, you can watch the following:

.. raw:: html

    <iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/0VIVSeN7Ij8?si=i3vTsfTNorzh5y2C" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin" allowfullscreen></iframe>


Note: if you run into the "Invalid HTTP_HOST" error, then please set the environment variable `HAMILTON_ALLOWED_HOSTS="*"` (or comma separated list of domains of choice) for the backend docker container. You can inject
this via `-e` or in the `docker-compose[-prod].yml` file itself.

Install
-------

If you'd like a video walkthrough on getting set up, you can watch the following:

.. raw:: html

    <iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/DPfxlTwaNsM?si=gks5oOAWsNPSJbe_" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin" allowfullscreen></iframe>


As prerequisites, you will need to have Docker installed -- you can follow instructions  `here <https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/>`_.

1. Clone the Hamilton repository locally

.. code-block:: bash

    git clone https://github.com/dagworks-inc/hamilton

2. Navigate to the ``hamilton/ui`` directory

.. code-block:: bash

    cd hamilton/ui


3. Execute the installation script with the following command

.. code-block:: bash

    ./run.sh


This will:

- Pull all Docker images from the Docker Hub
- Start a local Postgres database
- Start the backend server
- Start the frontend server

This takes a bit of time! So be patient. The server will be running on port 8242.

4. Then navigate to ``http://localhost:8242`` in your browser, and enter your email (this will be the username used within the app).

Building the Docker Images locally
-----------------------------------
If building the Docker containers from scratch, increase your Docker memory to 10gb or more -- you can do this in the Docker Desktop settings.

To build the images locally, you can run the following command:

.. code-block:: bash

    # from the hamilton/ui directory
    ./dev.sh --build

This will build the containers from scratch. If you just want to mount the local code, you can run just

.. code-block:: bash

    ./dev.sh

Self-Hosting
-------------

If you know docker, you should be good to go. The one environment variable to know is `HAMILTON_ALLOWED_HOSTS`, which you can set to `*` to allow all hosts, or
a comma separated list of hosts you want to allow.

To host the UI on a subpath, set `REACT_APP_HAMILTON_SUB_PATH` to the subpath required. For example, to run on `https://domain.com/hamilton`:

.. code-block:: yaml

    - REACT_APP_HAMILTON_SUB_PATH=/hamilton

Make sure that the sub path environment variable begins with `/` if set.

Please reach out to us if you want to deploy on your own infrastructure and need help - `join slack <https://join.slack.com/t/hamilton-opensource/shared_invite/zt-2niepkra8-DGKGf_tTYhXuJWBTXtIs4g>`_.
More extensive self-hosting documentation is in the works, e.g. Snowflake, Databricks, AWS, GCP, Azure, etc.; we'd love a helm
chart contribution!


Running on Snowflake
---------------------
You can run the Hamilton UI on Snowflake Container Services. For a detailed guide, see the blog post
`Observability of Python code and application logic with Hamilton UI on Snowflake Container Services <https://medium.com/@pkantyka/observability-of-python-code-and-application-logic-with-hamilton-ui-on-snowflake-container-services-a26693b46635>`_ by
`Greg Kantyka <https://medium.com/@pkantyka>`_ and the `Hamilton Snowflake Example <https://github.com/DAGWorks-Inc/hamilton/tree/main/examples/snowflake/hamilton_ui>`_.

-----------
Get started
-----------

Now that you have your server running, you can run a simple dataflow and watch it in the UI!
You can follow instructions in the UI when you create a new project, or follow the instructions here.

First, install the SDK:

.. code-block:: bash

    pip install "sf-hamilton[sdk]"

Then, navigate to the project page (dashboard/projects), in the running UI, and click the green ``+ New DAG`` button.

.. image:: ../_static/new_project.png

Remember the project ID -- you'll use it for the next steps.

Existing Hamilton Code
----------------------
Add the following adapter to your code if you have existing Hamilton code:

.. code-block:: python

    from hamilton_sdk import adapters

    tracker = adapters.HamiltonTracker(
       project_id=PROJECT_ID_FROM_ABOVE,
       username="USERNAME/EMAIL_YOU_PUT_IN_THE_UI",
       dag_name="my_version_of_the_dag",
       tags={"environment": "DEV", "team": "MY_TEAM", "version": "X"}
    )

    dr = (
      driver.Builder()
        .with_config(your_config)
        .with_modules(*your_modules)
        .with_adapters(tracker)
        .build()
    )

Then run your DAG, and follow the links in the logs! Note that the link is correct if you're using
the local mode -- if you're on postgres it links to 8241 (but you'll want to follow it to 8241).

I need some Hamilton code to run
--------------------------------
If you don't have Hamilton code to run this with, you can run Hamilton UI example under `examples/hamilton_ui <https://github.com/dagworks-inc/hamilton/tree/main/examples/hamilton_ui>`_:

.. code-block:: bash

    # we assume you're in the Hamilton repository root
    cd examples/hamilton_ui
    # make sure you have the right python packages installed
    pip install -r requirements.txt
    # run the pipeline providing the email and project_id you created in the UI
    python run.py --email <email> --project_id <project_id>

You should see links in the `logs to the UI <http://localhost:8242/dashboard/projects>`_, where you can see the DAG run + the data summaries captured.

----------
Features
----------

Once you get to the UI, you can navigate to the projects page (left hand nav-bar). Assuming you have created a project
and logged to it, you can then navigate to view it and then more details about it. E.g. versions, code, lineage, catalog, execution runs.
See below for a few screenshots of the UI.


Dataflow versioning
--------------------

Select a dataflow versions to compare and visualize.

.. image:: ../_static/version_tracking.png
    :alt: DAG Version Tracking

Assets/features catalog
-----------------------

View functions, nodes, and assets across a history of runs.

.. image:: ../_static/catalog.png
    :alt: Catalog

Browser
--------

View dataflow structure and code.


.. image:: ../_static/code_browser.png
    :alt: Browser

.. image:: ../_static/dag_view.png
    :alt: Browser

Run tracking + telemetry
-------------------------

View a history of runs, telemetry on runs/comparison, and data for specific runs:

.. image:: ../_static/run_tracking.png
    :alt: Run Tracking

.. image:: ../_static/run_telemetry.png
    :alt: Run Telemetry

.. image:: ../_static/run_data.png
    :alt: Run Data


------------------
SDK Configuration
------------------
This section documents HamiltonTracker configuration options.

Changing where data is sent
----------------------------
You can change where telemetry is logged by passing in `hamilton_api_url` and/or `hamilton_ui_url` to the
HamiltonTracker constructor. By default, these are set to `localhost:8241/8242`.

.. code-block:: python

    from hamilton_sdk import adapters

    tracker = adapters.HamiltonTracker(
       project_id=PROJECT_ID_FROM_ABOVE,
       username="USERNAME/EMAIL_YOU_PUT_IN_THE_UI",
       dag_name="my_version_of_the_dag",
       tags={"environment": "DEV", "team": "MY_TEAM", "version": "X"},
       hamilton_api_url="http://YOUR_DOMAIN_HERE:8241",
       hamilton_ui_url="http://YOUR_DOMAIN_HERE:8242" # if using docker the UI is on 8242.
    )

    dr = (
      driver.Builder()
        .with_config(your_config)
        .with_modules(*your_modules)
        .with_adapters(tracker)
        .build()
    )


Changing behavior of what is captured
-------------------------------------
By default, a lot is captured and sent to the Hamilton UI.

Here are a few options that can change that - these can be found
in `hamilton_sdk.tracking.constants`. You can either change the defaults by
directly changing the constants, by specifying them in a config file, or via environment variables.

Here we first explain the options:

.. table:: Simple Invocation
   :align: left

   +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------+
   | Option                      | Default                     | Explanation                                              |
   +=============================+=============================+==========================================================+
   | CAPTURE_DATA_STATISTICS     | True                        | Whether to capture any data insights/statistics          |
   +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------+
   | MAX_LIST_LENGTH_CAPTURE     | 50                          | Max length for list capture                              |
   +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------+
   | MAX_DICT_LENGTH_CAPTURE     | 100                         | Max length for dict capture                              |
   +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------+
   | DEFAULT_CONFIG_URI          | ~/.hamilton.conf            | Default config file URI.                                 |
   +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------+


To change the defaults via a config file, you can do the following:

.. code-block:: ini

    [SDK_CONSTANTS]
    MAX_LIST_LENGTH_CAPTURE=100
    MAX_DICT_LENGTH_CAPTURE=200

    # save this to ~/.hamilton.conf


To change the defaults via environment variables, you can do the following, prefixing them with `HAMILTON_`:

.. code-block:: bash

    export HAMILTON_MAX_LIST_LENGTH_CAPTURE=100
    export HAMILTON_MAX_DICT_LENGTH_CAPTURE=200
    python run_my_hamilton_code.py

To change the defaults directly, you can do the following:

.. code-block:: python

    from hamilton_sdk.tracking import constants

    constants.MAX_LIST_LENGTH_CAPTURE = 100
    constants.MAX_DICT_LENGTH_CAPTURE = 200

    tracker = adapters.HamiltonTracker(
       project_id=PROJECT_ID_FROM_ABOVE,
       username="USERNAME/EMAIL_YOU_PUT_IN_THE_UI",
       dag_name="my_version_of_the_dag",
       tags={"environment": "DEV", "team": "MY_TEAM", "version": "X"}
    )

    dr = (
      driver.Builder()
        .with_config(your_config)
        .with_modules(*your_modules)
        .with_adapters(tracker)
        .build()
    )
    dr.execute(...)

In terms of precedence, the order is:

1. Module default.
2. Config file values.
3. Environment variables.
4. Directly set values.

Commit message:

Replaces most links and Hamilton references (#1339)
This does I think most of the work required to shift to the new docs
by replacing links and naming where appropriate.

This is still missing critical parts that we need in our docs, e.g. the
standard Apache boilerplate ...


Squashed commits --
* Replaces most links

This does not replace the hamilton.dagworks.io links
until we have hamilton.apache.org set up and running.

* Updates docs to reference Hamilton as Apache Hamilton

I spot checked this.

* Adds ability to build and publish docs

This does a few things:

1. Adds .github workflow to build things
2. Adds .asf.yaml that specifies that a site should be built and deployed.

No real design decisions, other than this seems to work and is low effort.

Squashed commits below:

Adds to asf.yaml and attempts to write to docs to branch (+4 squashed commits)
Squashed commits:
[e44ca55e] Adds incubating reference
[486c57fc] Adds pushing to asf-* branches

Will see if this works.
[4312df53] Fixes docs and creates PDF
[919ccc22] Adds github workflow to build docs

WIP commit.

* Adds incubating to main.md

* Changes references to hamilton.apache.org

This change updates links to the right documentation domain.

* Tries to make badges work

* Fixes whitespace

* Increase fetch depth for docs build in workflows

Was getting a too shallow warning. Gemini suggested
increasing the fetch depth - so I set it to 0 to check
out the whole repo.

* Adds link to PDF

* Found more places that I missed changing the domain

I missed these domain changes. Note the docs don't have
en/latest/ on them.

* Reduces overuse of Apache Hamilton

Since in most cases Hamilton suffices when describing concepts within
Hamilton.

docs/hamilton-ui/ui.rst, after:

--------------------
UI Overview
--------------------

Apache Hamilton comes with a fully open-source UI that can be run both for local deployment and on a remote server.
The UI consists of the following features:

1. Telemetry for hamilton executions -- both on the history of executions and the data itself.
2. A feature/artifact catalog for browsing/connecting executions of nodes -> results.
3. A dataflow (i.e. DAG) visualizer for exploring and looking at your code, and determining lineage.
4. A project explorer for viewing curating projects and viewing versions of your Apache Hamilton dataflows.

In short, the Apache Hamilton UI aims to combine a large swath of MLOps/data observability systems in one simple application.

.. image:: ../_static/hamilton_ui.jpeg
    :alt: Apache Hamilton UI

---

The Apache Hamilton UI has two modes:
1. Run locally using sqlite3
2. Run on docker images with postgres (meant for deployment)

----------
Local Mode
----------

To run the hamilton UI in local mode, you can do the following:

.. code-block:: bash

    pip install "sf-hamilton[ui,sdk]"
    hamilton ui
    # python -m hamilton.cli.__main__ ui # on windows

This will launch a browser window in localhost:8241. You can then navigate to the UI and start using it!
While this can potentially handle a small production workflow, you may want to run on postgres with a separate frontend/backend/db
for full scalability and a multi-read/write db.

--------------------
Docker/Deployed Mode
--------------------

The Apache Hamilton UI can be contained within a set of Docker images. You launch with `docker-compose <https://docs.docker.com/compose/>`_, and it will start up the UI, the backend server,
and a Postgres database. If you'd like a quick overview of some of the features, you can watch the following:

.. raw:: html

    <iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/0VIVSeN7Ij8?si=i3vTsfTNorzh5y2C" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin" allowfullscreen></iframe>


Note: if you run into the "Invalid HTTP_HOST" error, then please set the environment variable `HAMILTON_ALLOWED_HOSTS="*"` (or comma separated list of domains of choice) for the backend docker container. You can inject
this via `-e` or in the `docker-compose[-prod].yml` file itself.

Install
-------

If you'd like a video walkthrough on getting set up, you can watch the following:

.. raw:: html

    <iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/DPfxlTwaNsM?si=gks5oOAWsNPSJbe_" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin" allowfullscreen></iframe>


As prerequisites, you will need to have Docker installed -- you can follow instructions  `here <https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/>`_.

1. Clone the Apache Hamilton repository locally

.. code-block:: bash

    git clone https://github.com/apache/hamilton

2. Navigate to the ``hamilton/ui`` directory

.. code-block:: bash

    cd hamilton/ui


3. Execute the installation script with the following command

.. code-block:: bash

    ./run.sh


This will:

- Pull all Docker images from the Docker Hub
- Start a local Postgres database
- Start the backend server
- Start the frontend server

This takes a bit of time! So be patient. The server will be running on port 8242.

4. Then navigate to ``http://localhost:8242`` in your browser, and enter your email (this will be the username used within the app).

Building the Docker Images locally
-----------------------------------
If building the Docker containers from scratch, increase your Docker memory to 10gb or more -- you can do this in the Docker Desktop settings.

To build the images locally, you can run the following command:

.. code-block:: bash

    # from the hamilton/ui directory
    ./dev.sh --build

This will build the containers from scratch. If you just want to mount the local code, you can run just

.. code-block:: bash

    ./dev.sh

Self-Hosting
-------------

If you know docker, you should be good to go. The one environment variable to know is `HAMILTON_ALLOWED_HOSTS`, which you can set to `*` to allow all hosts, or
a comma separated list of hosts you want to allow.

To host the UI on a subpath, set `REACT_APP_HAMILTON_SUB_PATH` to the subpath required. For example, to run on `https://domain.com/hamilton`:

.. code-block:: yaml

    - REACT_APP_HAMILTON_SUB_PATH=/hamilton

Make sure that the sub path environment variable begins with `/` if set.

Please reach out to us if you want to deploy on your own infrastructure and need help - `join slack <https://join.slack.com/t/hamilton-opensource/shared_invite/zt-2niepkra8-DGKGf_tTYhXuJWBTXtIs4g>`_.
More extensive self-hosting documentation is in the works, e.g. Snowflake, Databricks, AWS, GCP, Azure, etc.; we'd love a helm
chart contribution!


Running on Snowflake
---------------------
You can run the Apache Hamilton UI on Snowflake Container Services. For a detailed guide, see the blog post
`Observability of Python code and application logic with Apache Hamilton UI on Snowflake Container Services <https://medium.com/@pkantyka/observability-of-python-code-and-application-logic-with-hamilton-ui-on-snowflake-container-services-a26693b46635>`_ by
`Greg Kantyka <https://medium.com/@pkantyka>`_ and the `Apache Hamilton Snowflake Example <https://github.com/apache/hamilton/tree/main/examples/snowflake/hamilton_ui>`_.

-----------
Get started
-----------

Now that you have your server running, you can run a simple dataflow and watch it in the UI!
You can follow instructions in the UI when you create a new project, or follow the instructions here.

First, install the SDK:

.. code-block:: bash

    pip install "sf-hamilton[sdk]"

Then, navigate to the project page (dashboard/projects), in the running UI, and click the green ``+ New DAG`` button.

.. image:: ../_static/new_project.png

Remember the project ID -- you'll use it for the next steps.

Existing Apache Hamilton Code
------------------------------------
Add the following adapter to your code if you have existing Apache Hamilton code:

.. code-block:: python

    from hamilton_sdk import adapters

    tracker = adapters.HamiltonTracker(
       project_id=PROJECT_ID_FROM_ABOVE,
       username="USERNAME/EMAIL_YOU_PUT_IN_THE_UI",
       dag_name="my_version_of_the_dag",
       tags={"environment": "DEV", "team": "MY_TEAM", "version": "X"}
    )

    dr = (
      driver.Builder()
        .with_config(your_config)
        .with_modules(*your_modules)
        .with_adapters(tracker)
        .build()
    )

Then run your DAG, and follow the links in the logs! Note that the link is correct if you're using
the local mode -- if you're on postgres it links to 8241 (but you'll want to follow it to 8241).

I need some Apache Hamilton code to run
----------------------------------------------
If you don't have Apache Hamilton code to run this with, you can run Apache Hamilton UI example under `examples/hamilton_ui <https://github.com/apache/hamilton/tree/main/examples/hamilton_ui>`_:

.. code-block:: bash

    # we assume you're in the Apache Hamilton repository root
    cd examples/hamilton_ui
    # make sure you have the right python packages installed
    pip install -r requirements.txt
    # run the pipeline providing the email and project_id you created in the UI
    python run.py --email <email> --project_id <project_id>

You should see links in the `logs to the UI <http://localhost:8242/dashboard/projects>`_, where you can see the DAG run + the data summaries captured.

----------
Features
----------

Once you get to the UI, you can navigate to the projects page (left hand nav-bar). Assuming you have created a project
and logged to it, you can then navigate to view it and then more details about it. E.g. versions, code, lineage, catalog, execution runs.
See below for a few screenshots of the UI.


Dataflow versioning
--------------------

Select a dataflow versions to compare and visualize.

.. image:: ../_static/version_tracking.png
    :alt: DAG Version Tracking

Assets/features catalog
-----------------------

View functions, nodes, and assets across a history of runs.

.. image:: ../_static/catalog.png
    :alt: Catalog

Browser
--------

View dataflow structure and code.


.. image:: ../_static/code_browser.png
    :alt: Browser

.. image:: ../_static/dag_view.png
    :alt: Browser

Run tracking + telemetry
-------------------------

View a history of runs, telemetry on runs/comparison, and data for specific runs:

.. image:: ../_static/run_tracking.png
    :alt: Run Tracking

.. image:: ../_static/run_telemetry.png
    :alt: Run Telemetry

.. image:: ../_static/run_data.png
    :alt: Run Data


------------------
SDK Configuration
------------------
This section documents HamiltonTracker configuration options.

Changing where data is sent
----------------------------
You can change where telemetry is logged by passing in `hamilton_api_url` and/or `hamilton_ui_url` to the
HamiltonTracker constructor. By default, these are set to `localhost:8241/8242`.

.. code-block:: python

    from hamilton_sdk import adapters

    tracker = adapters.HamiltonTracker(
       project_id=PROJECT_ID_FROM_ABOVE,
       username="USERNAME/EMAIL_YOU_PUT_IN_THE_UI",
       dag_name="my_version_of_the_dag",
       tags={"environment": "DEV", "team": "MY_TEAM", "version": "X"},
       hamilton_api_url="http://YOUR_DOMAIN_HERE:8241",
       hamilton_ui_url="http://YOUR_DOMAIN_HERE:8242" # if using docker the UI is on 8242.
    )

    dr = (
      driver.Builder()
        .with_config(your_config)
        .with_modules(*your_modules)
        .with_adapters(tracker)
        .build()
    )


Changing behavior of what is captured
-------------------------------------
By default, a lot is captured and sent to the Apache Hamilton UI.

Here are a few options that can change that - these can be found
in `hamilton_sdk.tracking.constants`. You can either change the defaults by
directly changing the constants, by specifying them in a config file, or via environment variables.

Here we first explain the options:

.. table:: Simple Invocation
   :align: left

   +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------+
   | Option                      | Default                     | Explanation                                              |
   +=============================+=============================+==========================================================+
   | CAPTURE_DATA_STATISTICS     | True                        | Whether to capture any data insights/statistics          |
   +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------+
   | MAX_LIST_LENGTH_CAPTURE     | 50                          | Max length for list capture                              |
   +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------+
   | MAX_DICT_LENGTH_CAPTURE     | 100                         | Max length for dict capture                              |
   +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------+
   | DEFAULT_CONFIG_URI          | ~/.hamilton.conf            | Default config file URI.                                 |
   +-----------------------------+-----------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------+


To change the defaults via a config file, you can do the following:

.. code-block:: ini

    [SDK_CONSTANTS]
    MAX_LIST_LENGTH_CAPTURE=100
    MAX_DICT_LENGTH_CAPTURE=200

    # save this to ~/.hamilton.conf


To change the defaults via environment variables, you can do the following, prefixing them with `HAMILTON_`:

.. code-block:: bash

    export HAMILTON_MAX_LIST_LENGTH_CAPTURE=100
    export HAMILTON_MAX_DICT_LENGTH_CAPTURE=200
    python run_my_hamilton_code.py

To change the defaults directly, you can do the following:

.. code-block:: python

    from hamilton_sdk.tracking import constants

    constants.MAX_LIST_LENGTH_CAPTURE = 100
    constants.MAX_DICT_LENGTH_CAPTURE = 200

    tracker = adapters.HamiltonTracker(
       project_id=PROJECT_ID_FROM_ABOVE,
       username="USERNAME/EMAIL_YOU_PUT_IN_THE_UI",
       dag_name="my_version_of_the_dag",
       tags={"environment": "DEV", "team": "MY_TEAM", "version": "X"}
    )

    dr = (
      driver.Builder()
        .with_config(your_config)
        .with_modules(*your_modules)
        .with_adapters(tracker)
        .build()
    )
    dr.execute(...)

In terms of precedence, the order is:

1. Module default.
2. Config file values.
3. Environment variables.
4. Directly set values.
