examples/polars/lazyframe/README.md, before:

# Classic Hamilton Hello World

In this example we show you how to create a simple hello world dataflow that
creates a polars lazyframe as a result. It performs a series of transforms on the
input to create columns that appear in the output.

File organization:

* `my_functions.py` houses the logic that we want to compute.
Note (1) how the functions are named, and what input
parameters they require. That is how we create a DAG modeling the dataflow we want to happen.
* `my_script.py` houses how to get Hamilton to create the DAG, specifying that we want a polars dataframe and
exercise it with some inputs.

To run things:
```bash
> python my_script.py
```

# Visualizing Execution
Here is the graph of execution - which should look the same as the pandas example:

![polars](polars.png)

# Caveat with Polars
There is one major caveat with Polars to be aware of: THERE IS NO INDEX IN POLARS LIKE THERE IS WITH PANDAS.

What this means is that when you tell Hamilton to execute and return a polars dataframe if you are using the
[provided results builder](https://github.com/dagworks-inc/hamilton/blob/sf-hamilton-1.14.1/hamilton/plugins/h_polars.py#L8), i.e. `hamilton.plugins.h_polars.PolarsResultsBuilder`, then you will have to
ensure the row order matches the order you expect for all the outputs you request. E.g. if you do a filter, or a sort,
or a join, or a groupby, you will have to ensure that when you ask Hamilton to materialize an output that it's in the
order you expect.

If you have questions, or need help with this example,
join us on [slack](https://join.slack.com/t/hamilton-opensource/shared_invite/zt-2niepkra8-DGKGf_tTYhXuJWBTXtIs4g), and we'll try to help!

Otherwise if you have ideas on how to better make Hamilton work with Polars, please open an issue or start a discussion!

Commit message:

Replaces most links and Hamilton references (#1339)
This does I think most of the work required to shift to the new docs
by replacing links and naming where appropriate.

This is still missing critical parts that we need in our docs, e.g. the
standard Apache boilerplate ...


Squashed commits --
* Replaces most links

This does not replace the hamilton.dagworks.io links
until we have hamilton.apache.org set up and running.

* Updates docs to reference Hamilton as Apache Hamilton

I spot checked this.

* Adds ability to build and publish docs

This does a few things:

1. Adds .github workflow to build things
2. Adds .asf.yaml that specifies that a site should be built and deployed.

No real design decisions, other than this seems to work and is low effort.

Squashed commits below:

Adds to asf.yaml and attempts to write to docs to branch (+4 squashed commits)
Squashed commits:
[e44ca55e] Adds incubating reference
[486c57fc] Adds pushing to asf-* branches

Will see if this works.
[4312df53] Fixes docs and creates PDF
[919ccc22] Adds github workflow to build docs

WIP commit.

* Adds incubating to main.md

* Changes references to hamilton.apache.org

This change updates links to the right documentation domain.

* Tries to make badges work

* Fixes whitespace

* Increase fetch depth for docs build in workflows

Was getting a too shallow warning. Gemini suggested
increasing the fetch depth - so I set it to 0 to check
out the whole repo.

* Adds link to PDF

* Found more places that I missed changing the domain

I missed these domain changes. Note the docs don't have
en/latest/ on them.

* Reduces overuse of Apache Hamilton

Since in most cases Hamilton suffices when describing concepts within
Hamilton.

examples/polars/lazyframe/README.md, after:

# Classic Apache Hamilton Hello World

In this example we show you how to create a simple hello world dataflow that
creates a polars lazyframe as a result. It performs a series of transforms on the
input to create columns that appear in the output.

File organization:

* `my_functions.py` houses the logic that we want to compute.
Note (1) how the functions are named, and what input
parameters they require. That is how we create a DAG modeling the dataflow we want to happen.
* `my_script.py` houses how to get Apache Hamilton to create the DAG, specifying that we want a polars dataframe and
exercise it with some inputs.

To run things:
```bash
> python my_script.py
```

# Visualizing Execution
Here is the graph of execution - which should look the same as the pandas example:

![polars](polars.png)

# Caveat with Polars
There is one major caveat with Polars to be aware of: THERE IS NO INDEX IN POLARS LIKE THERE IS WITH PANDAS.

What this means is that when you tell Apache Hamilton to execute and return a polars dataframe if you are using the
[provided results builder](https://github.com/apache/hamilton/blob/sf-hamilton-1.14.1/hamilton/plugins/h_polars.py#L8), i.e. `hamilton.plugins.h_polars.PolarsResultsBuilder`, then you will have to
ensure the row order matches the order you expect for all the outputs you request. E.g. if you do a filter, or a sort,
or a join, or a groupby, you will have to ensure that when you ask Apache Hamilton to materialize an output that it's in the
order you expect.

If you have questions, or need help with this example,
join us on [slack](https://join.slack.com/t/hamilton-opensource/shared_invite/zt-2niepkra8-DGKGf_tTYhXuJWBTXtIs4g), and we'll try to help!

Otherwise if you have ideas on how to better make Apache Hamilton work with Polars, please open an issue or start a discussion!
