ui/sdk/README.md, before:

# Hamilton UI SDK: Client Code &amp; Related

Welcome to using the Hamilton UI!

Here are instructions on how to get started with tracking, and managing your Hamilton
DAGs with the Hamilton UI.

## Getting Started

For the latest documentation, please consult our
[Hamilton documentation](https://hamilton.dagworks.io/) under `Hamilton UI`.

For a quick overview of Hamilton, we suggest [tryhamilton.dev](https://www.tryhamilton.dev/).

## Using the HamiltonTracker

First, you'll need to install the Hamilton SDK package. Assuming you're using pip, you
can do this with:

```bash
# install the package & cli into your favorite python environment.
pip install "sf-hamilton[sdk]"

# And validate -- this should not error.
python -c "from hamilton_sdk import adapters"
```

Next, you'll need to modify your Hamilton driver. You'll only need to use one line of code to
replace your driver with ours:

```python
from hamilton_sdk import adapters
from hamilton import driver

tracker = adapters.HamiltonTracker(
   project_id=PROJECT_ID,  # modify this as needed
   username=YOUR_EMAIL, # modify this as needed
   dag_name="my_version_of_the_dag",
   tags={"environment": "DEV", "team": "MY_TEAM", "version": "X"}
)
dr = (
  driver.Builder()
    .with_config(your_config)
    .with_modules(*your_modules)
    .with_adapters(tracker)
    .build()
)
# to run call .execute() or .materialize() on the driver
```
*Project ID*: You'll need a project ID. Create a project if you don't have one, and take the ID from that.

*username*: This is the email address you used to set up the Hamilton UI.

*dag_name*: for a project, the DAG name is the top level way to group DAGs.
E.g. ltv_model, us_sales, etc.

*tags*: these are optional are string key value paris. They allow you to filter and curate
various DAG runs.

Then run Hamilton as normal! Each DAG run will be tracked, and you'll have access to it in the
Hamilton UI. After spinning up the Hamilton UI application, visit it to see your projects & DAGs.


# License
The code here is licensed under the Apache 2.0 license. See the main repository [LICENSE](../../LICENSE) for details.

Commit message:

Replaces most links and Hamilton references (#1339)
This does I think most of the work required to shift to the new docs
by replacing links and naming where appropriate.

This is still missing critical parts that we need in our docs, e.g. the
standard Apache boilerplate ...


Squashed commits --
* Replaces most links

This does not replace the hamilton.dagworks.io links
until we have hamilton.apache.org set up and running.

* Updates docs to reference Hamilton as Apache Hamilton

I spot checked this.

* Adds ability to build and publish docs

This does a few things:

1. Adds .github workflow to build things
2. Adds .asf.yaml that specifies that a site should be built and deployed.

No real design decisions, other than this seems to work and is low effort.

Squashed commits below:

Adds to asf.yaml and attempts to write to docs to branch (+4 squashed commits)
Squashed commits:
[e44ca55e] Adds incubating reference
[486c57fc] Adds pushing to asf-* branches

Will see if this works.
[4312df53] Fixes docs and creates PDF
[919ccc22] Adds github workflow to build docs

WIP commit.

* Adds incubating to main.md

* Changes references to hamilton.apache.org

This change updates links to the right documentation domain.

* Tries to make badges work

* Fixes whitespace

* Increase fetch depth for docs build in workflows

Was getting a too shallow warning. Gemini suggested
increasing the fetch depth - so I set it to 0 to check
out the whole repo.

* Adds link to PDF

* Found more places that I missed changing the domain

I missed these domain changes. Note the docs don't have
en/latest/ on them.

* Reduces overuse of Apache Hamilton

Since in most cases Hamilton suffices when describing concepts within
Hamilton.

ui/sdk/README.md, after:

# Apache Hamilton UI SDK: Client Code &amp; Related

Welcome to using the Apache Hamilton UI!

Here are instructions on how to get started with tracking, and managing your Apache Hamilton
DAGs with the Apache Hamilton UI.

## Getting Started

For the latest documentation, please consult our
[Apache Hamilton documentation](https://hamilton.apache.org/) under `Apache Hamilton UI`.

For a quick overview of Apache Hamilton, we suggest [tryhamilton.dev](https://www.tryhamilton.dev/).

## Using the HamiltonTracker

First, you'll need to install the Apache Hamilton SDK package. Assuming you're using pip, you
can do this with:

```bash
# install the package & cli into your favorite python environment.
pip install "sf-hamilton[sdk]"

# And validate -- this should not error.
python -c "from hamilton_sdk import adapters"
```

Next, you'll need to modify your Apache Hamilton driver. You'll only need to use one line of code to
replace your driver with ours:

```python
from hamilton_sdk import adapters
from hamilton import driver

tracker = adapters.HamiltonTracker(
   project_id=PROJECT_ID,  # modify this as needed
   username=YOUR_EMAIL, # modify this as needed
   dag_name="my_version_of_the_dag",
   tags={"environment": "DEV", "team": "MY_TEAM", "version": "X"}
)
dr = (
  driver.Builder()
    .with_config(your_config)
    .with_modules(*your_modules)
    .with_adapters(tracker)
    .build()
)
# to run call .execute() or .materialize() on the driver
```
*Project ID*: You'll need a project ID. Create a project if you don't have one, and take the ID from that.

*username*: This is the email address you used to set up the Apache Hamilton UI.

*dag_name*: for a project, the DAG name is the top level way to group DAGs.
E.g. ltv_model, us_sales, etc.

*tags*: these are optional are string key value paris. They allow you to filter and curate
various DAG runs.

Then run Apache Hamilton as normal! Each DAG run will be tracked, and you'll have access to it in the
Apache Hamilton UI. After spinning up the Apache Hamilton UI application, visit it to see your projects & DAGs.


# License
The code here is licensed under the Apache 2.0 license. See the main repository [LICENSE](../../LICENSE) for details.
