examples/feast/README.md, before:

# Hamilton + Feast

In this example, we're going to show you how Hamilton can help you structure your Feast repository and bring tighter coupling between your feature transformations (code) and feature store (data).
- **Feast** is a feature store, which is an ML-specific stack component, that helps store and serve features (offline vs. online, batch vs. stream). It keeps a registry of features scattered across storage sources (database, data warehouse, streaming, etc.) and facilitates data retrieval and joining. Features need to be computed separately, typically in an SQL pipeline or a Python dataframe library and then be pushed to the Feast feature store([Feast FAQ](https://feast.dev/)).
- **Hamilton** is a data transformation micro-framework. It helps one write Python code that is modular and reusable, and that expresses a [DAG](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Directed_acyclic_graph) of execution. It was initially developed for large dataframes with hundreds of columns for machine learning while preserving strong lineage capabilities ([high-level comparison](https://hamilton.dagworks.io/en/latest/)).


## File organization
- `/default_feature_store` is the quickstart example you can generate by calling `feast init default`. It is presented here as a reference point to compare with Hamilton + Feast alternatives.
- `/simple_feature_store` is a 1-to-1 reimplementation of `/default_feature_store`. You will notice that adding Hamilton helps make explicit the dependencies between Feast objects therefore increasing readability and maintainability.
- `/integration_feature_store` extends the `/simple_feature_store` example by adding the feature transformation  code using Hamilton and directly integrating with Feast.
- `retrieval.ipynb` in `/integration_feature_store/feature_repo` shows how to retrieve features from Feast and highlights the benefits of end-to-end visibility with Hamilton.

## Learn more about Feast
- Hands-on workshop: https://github.com/feast-dev/feast-workshop

Commit message:

Replaces most links and Hamilton references (#1339)
This does I think most of the work required to shift to the new docs
by replacing links and naming where appropriate.

This is still missing critical parts that we need in our docs, e.g. the
standard Apache boilerplate ...


Squashed commits --
* Replaces most links

This does not replace the hamilton.dagworks.io links
until we have hamilton.apache.org set up and running.

* Updates docs to reference Hamilton as Apache Hamilton

I spot checked this.

* Adds ability to build and publish docs

This does a few things:

1. Adds .github workflow to build things
2. Adds .asf.yaml that specifies that a site should be built and deployed.

No real design decisions, other than this seems to work and is low effort.

Squashed commits below:

Adds to asf.yaml and attempts to write to docs to branch (+4 squashed commits)
Squashed commits:
[e44ca55e] Adds incubating reference
[486c57fc] Adds pushing to asf-* branches

Will see if this works.
[4312df53] Fixes docs and creates PDF
[919ccc22] Adds github workflow to build docs

WIP commit.

* Adds incubating to main.md

* Changes references to hamilton.apache.org

This change updates links to the right documentation domain.

* Tries to make badges work

* Fixes whitespace

* Increase fetch depth for docs build in workflows

Was getting a too shallow warning. Gemini suggested
increasing the fetch depth - so I set it to 0 to check
out the whole repo.

* Adds link to PDF

* Found more places that I missed changing the domain

I missed these domain changes. Note the docs don't have
en/latest/ on them.

* Reduces overuse of Apache Hamilton

Since in most cases Hamilton suffices when describing concepts within
Hamilton.

examples/feast/README.md, after:

# Apache Hamilton + Feast

In this example, we're going to show you how Apache Hamilton can help you structure your Feast repository and bring tighter coupling between your feature transformations (code) and feature store (data).
- **Feast** is a feature store, which is an ML-specific stack component, that helps store and serve features (offline vs. online, batch vs. stream). It keeps a registry of features scattered across storage sources (database, data warehouse, streaming, etc.) and facilitates data retrieval and joining. Features need to be computed separately, typically in an SQL pipeline or a Python dataframe library and then be pushed to the Feast feature store([Feast FAQ](https://feast.dev/)).
- **Apache Hamilton** is a data transformation micro-framework. It helps one write Python code that is modular and reusable, and that expresses a [DAG](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Directed_acyclic_graph) of execution. It was initially developed for large dataframes with hundreds of columns for machine learning while preserving strong lineage capabilities ([high-level comparison](https://hamilton.apache.org/)).


## File organization
- `/default_feature_store` is the quickstart example you can generate by calling `feast init default`. It is presented here as a reference point to compare with Apache Hamilton + Feast alternatives.
- `/simple_feature_store` is a 1-to-1 reimplementation of `/default_feature_store`. You will notice that adding Apache Hamilton helps make explicit the dependencies between Feast objects therefore increasing readability and maintainability.
- `/integration_feature_store` extends the `/simple_feature_store` example by adding the feature transformation  code using Apache Hamilton and directly integrating with Feast.
- `retrieval.ipynb` in `/integration_feature_store/feature_repo` shows how to retrieve features from Feast and highlights the benefits of end-to-end visibility with Apache Hamilton.

## Learn more about Feast
- Hands-on workshop: https://github.com/feast-dev/feast-workshop
