examples/LLM_Workflows/observability_openllmetry/README.md, before:

# Monitor Hamilton with OpenTelemetry, OpenLLMetry and Traceloop

In this simple example, you'll learn how to use the `OpenTelemetryTracer` to emit traces of your Hamilton code using the OpenTelemetry format, in particular LLM applications.

![Traceloop screenshot](screenshot.png)

[OpenTelemetry](https://opentelemetry.io/) is an open-source cross-language tool that allows to instrument, generate, collect, and export telemetry data (metrics, logs, traces), and constitute an industry-recognized standard. Learn more about it in this [Awesome OpenTelemetry repository](https://github.com/magsther/awesome-opentelemetry)

[OpenLLMetry](https://github.com/traceloop/openllmetry) is an open-source Python library that automatically instruments with OpenTelemetry components of your LLM stack including LLM providers (OpenAI, Anthropic, HuggingFace, Cohere, etc.), vector databases (Weaviate, Qdrant, Chroma, etc.), and frameworks ([Burr](https://github.com/dagworks-inc/burr), Haystack, LangChain, LlamaIndex). In concrete terms, it means you automatically get detailed traces of API calls, retrieval operations, or text transformations for example.

One thing to note, OpenTelemetry is a middleware; it doesn't provide a destination to store data nor a dashboard. For this example, we'll use the tool [Traceloop](https://www.traceloop.com/), which is built by the developers of OpenLLMetry. It has a generous free-tier and can be conveniently set up in a few lines of code for this demo.

## Set up
Having access to a [Traceloop account](https://www.traceloop.com/) and an API key is a pre-requisite.

1. Create a virtual environment and activate it
    ```bash
    python -m venv venv && . venv/bin/active
    ```

2. Install requirements.
    ```bash
    pip install -r requirements.txt
    ```

3. Set environment variables for your API keys `OPENAI_API_KEY` and `TRACELOOP_API_KEY`

4. Execute the code
    ```bash
    python run.py
    ```

5. Explore results on Traceloop (or your OpenTelemetry destination).

### Without Traceloop

For this example to work without Traceloop, you will need to set up your own [OpenTelemetry destination](https://opentelemetry.io/ecosystem/vendors/). We suggest using [Jaeger](https://www.jaegertracing.io/docs/1.47/getting-started/) and included Python code to route telemetry to it in `run.py`.

## Should I still use the Hamilton UI?

Absolutely! OpenTelemetry focsues on collecting telemetry about the internals of code and external API calls. It's a standard amongst web services. There's no conflict between the OpenTelemetry tracer and the tracking for the Hamilton UI. In fact, the Hamilton UI captures a superset of what OpenTelemetry allows, tailored to the Hamilton framework such as:  visualizations, data lineage, summary statistics, and more utilities to improve your development experience. In the not too distant future, the Hamilton UI could ingest OpenTelemetry data 😉 (contributions welcomed!)

Commit message:

Replaces most links and Hamilton references (#1339)
This does I think most of the work required to shift to the new docs
by replacing links and naming where appropriate.

This is still missing critical parts that we need in our docs, e.g. the
standard Apache boilerplate ...


Squashed commits --
* Replaces most links

This does not replace the hamilton.dagworks.io links
until we have hamilton.apache.org set up and running.

* Updates docs to reference Hamilton as Apache Hamilton

I spot checked this.

* Adds ability to build and publish docs

This does a few things:

1. Adds .github workflow to build things
2. Adds .asf.yaml that specifies that a site should be built and deployed.

No real design decisions, other than this seems to work and is low effort.

Squashed commits below:

Adds to asf.yaml and attempts to write to docs to branch (+4 squashed commits)
Squashed commits:
[e44ca55e] Adds incubating reference
[486c57fc] Adds pushing to asf-* branches

Will see if this works.
[4312df53] Fixes docs and creates PDF
[919ccc22] Adds github workflow to build docs

WIP commit.

* Adds incubating to main.md

* Changes references to hamilton.apache.org

This change updates links to the right documentation domain.

* Tries to make badges work

* Fixes whitespace

* Increase fetch depth for docs build in workflows

Was getting a too shallow warning. Gemini suggested
increasing the fetch depth - so I set it to 0 to check
out the whole repo.

* Adds link to PDF

* Found more places that I missed changing the domain

I missed these domain changes. Note the docs don't have
en/latest/ on them.

* Reduces overuse of Apache Hamilton

Since in most cases Hamilton suffices when describing concepts within
Hamilton.

examples/LLM_Workflows/observability_openllmetry/README.md, after:

# Monitor Apache Hamilton with OpenTelemetry, OpenLLMetry and Traceloop

In this simple example, you'll learn how to use the `OpenTelemetryTracer` to emit traces of your Apache Hamilton code using the OpenTelemetry format, in particular LLM applications.

![Traceloop screenshot](screenshot.png)

[OpenTelemetry](https://opentelemetry.io/) is an open-source cross-language tool that allows to instrument, generate, collect, and export telemetry data (metrics, logs, traces), and constitute an industry-recognized standard. Learn more about it in this [Awesome OpenTelemetry repository](https://github.com/magsther/awesome-opentelemetry)

[OpenLLMetry](https://github.com/traceloop/openllmetry) is an open-source Python library that automatically instruments with OpenTelemetry components of your LLM stack including LLM providers (OpenAI, Anthropic, HuggingFace, Cohere, etc.), vector databases (Weaviate, Qdrant, Chroma, etc.), and frameworks ([Burr](https://github.com/apache/burr), Haystack, LangChain, LlamaIndex). In concrete terms, it means you automatically get detailed traces of API calls, retrieval operations, or text transformations for example.

One thing to note, OpenTelemetry is a middleware; it doesn't provide a destination to store data nor a dashboard. For this example, we'll use the tool [Traceloop](https://www.traceloop.com/), which is built by the developers of OpenLLMetry. It has a generous free-tier and can be conveniently set up in a few lines of code for this demo.

## Set up
Having access to a [Traceloop account](https://www.traceloop.com/) and an API key is a pre-requisite.

1. Create a virtual environment and activate it
    ```bash
    python -m venv venv && . venv/bin/active
    ```

2. Install requirements.
    ```bash
    pip install -r requirements.txt
    ```

3. Set environment variables for your API keys `OPENAI_API_KEY` and `TRACELOOP_API_KEY`

4. Execute the code
    ```bash
    python run.py
    ```

5. Explore results on Traceloop (or your OpenTelemetry destination).

### Without Traceloop

For this example to work without Traceloop, you will need to set up your own [OpenTelemetry destination](https://opentelemetry.io/ecosystem/vendors/). We suggest using [Jaeger](https://www.jaegertracing.io/docs/1.47/getting-started/) and included Python code to route telemetry to it in `run.py`.

## Should I still use the Apache Hamilton UI?

Absolutely! OpenTelemetry focsues on collecting telemetry about the internals of code and external API calls. It's a standard amongst web services. There's no conflict between the OpenTelemetry tracer and the tracking for the Apache Hamilton UI. In fact, the Apache Hamilton UI captures a superset of what OpenTelemetry allows, tailored to the Apache Hamilton framework such as:  visualizations, data lineage, summary statistics, and more utilities to improve your development experience. In the not too distant future, the Apache Hamilton UI could ingest OpenTelemetry data 😉 (contributions welcomed!)
