examples/streamlit/README.md, before:

# Streamlit + Hamilton

> This example accompanies the documentation page for [Streamlit](https://hamilton.dagworks.io/en/latest/integrations/streamlit/) integration.

Streamlit is an open-source Python library to create web applications with minimal effort. It's an effective solution to create simple dashboards, interactive data visualizations, and proof-of-concepts for data science, machine learning, and LLM applications.

In this example, We will build a simple financial dashboard based on the Kaggle [Bank Marketing Dataset](https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/janiobachmann/bank-marketing-dataset).

## How to run
1. Create virtual environment: `python -m venv ./venv`
2. Activate virtual environment: `. venv/bin/activate` (or `source venv/bin/Scripts` on Windows)
3. Install requirements: `pip install -r requirements.txt`
4. Launch Streamlit application: `streamlit run app.py`


## File organization
Adding Hamilton to your Streamlit application can provide a better separation between the dataflow and the UI logic. They pair nicely together because Hamilton is also stateless. Once defined, each call to `Driver.execute()` is independent. Therefore, on each Streamlit rerun, you use `Driver.execute()` to complete computations. Using Hamilton this way allows you to write your dataflow into Python modules and outside of the Streamlit.

### logic.py
Hamilton transformations are defined in the module `logic.py`. This includes downloading the data from the web, getting unique values for `job`, conducting groupby aggregates, and creating `plotly` figures.

### app.py
The Streamlit UI is defined in `app.py`. Notice a few things:
- `app.py` doesn't have to depend on `pandas` and `plotly`.
- `@cache_resource` allows to create the `Driver` only once.
- `@cache_data` on `_execute()` will automatically cache any Hamilton result based on the combination of arguments (`final_vars`, `inputs`, and `overrides`)
- `get_state_inputs()` and `get_state_overrides()` will collect values from user inputs.
- `execute()` parses the inputs and overrides from the state and call `_execute()`.


## Benefits
- **Clearer scope**: the decoupling between `app.py` and `logic.py` makes it easier to add data transformations or extend UI, and debug errors associated with either.
- **Reusable code**: the module `logic.py` can be reused elsewhere with Hamilton.
    - If you are building a proof-of-concept with Streamlit, your Hamilton module will be able to grow with your project and be useful for your production pipelines.
    - If you are already building dataflows with Hamilton, using it with Streamlit ensures your dashboard metrics have the same implementation with your production pipeline (i.e., prevent [implementation skew](https://building.nubank.com.br/dealing-with-train-serve-skew-in-real-time-ml-models-a-short-guide/))
- **Performance boost**: by caching the Hamilton Driver and its execution call, we are able to effectively cache all data operations in a few lines of code. Furthermore, Hamilton can scale further by using a remote task executor on a separate machine from the Streamlit application.

Commit message:

Replaces most links and Hamilton references (#1339)
This does I think most of the work required to shift to the new docs
by replacing links and naming where appropriate.

This is still missing critical parts that we need in our docs, e.g. the
standard Apache boilerplate ...


Squashed commits --
* Replaces most links

This does not replace the hamilton.dagworks.io links
until we have hamilton.apache.org set up and running.

* Updates docs to reference Hamilton as Apache Hamilton

I spot checked this.

* Adds ability to build and publish docs

This does a few things:

1. Adds .github workflow to build things
2. Adds .asf.yaml that specifies that a site should be built and deployed.

No real design decisions, other than this seems to work and is low effort.

Squashed commits below:

Adds to asf.yaml and attempts to write to docs to branch (+4 squashed commits)
Squashed commits:
[e44ca55e] Adds incubating reference
[486c57fc] Adds pushing to asf-* branches

Will see if this works.
[4312df53] Fixes docs and creates PDF
[919ccc22] Adds github workflow to build docs

WIP commit.

* Adds incubating to main.md

* Changes references to hamilton.apache.org

This change updates links to the right documentation domain.

* Tries to make badges work

* Fixes whitespace

* Increase fetch depth for docs build in workflows

Was getting a too shallow warning. Gemini suggested
increasing the fetch depth - so I set it to 0 to check
out the whole repo.

* Adds link to PDF

* Found more places that I missed changing the domain

I missed these domain changes. Note the docs don't have
en/latest/ on them.

* Reduces overuse of Apache Hamilton

Since in most cases Hamilton suffices when describing concepts within
Hamilton.

examples/streamlit/README.md, after:

# Streamlit + Apache Hamilton

> This example accompanies the documentation page for [Streamlit](https://hamilton.apache.org/integrations/streamlit/) integration.

Streamlit is an open-source Python library to create web applications with minimal effort. It's an effective solution to create simple dashboards, interactive data visualizations, and proof-of-concepts for data science, machine learning, and LLM applications.

In this example, We will build a simple financial dashboard based on the Kaggle [Bank Marketing Dataset](https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/janiobachmann/bank-marketing-dataset).

## How to run
1. Create virtual environment: `python -m venv ./venv`
2. Activate virtual environment: `. venv/bin/activate` (or `source venv/bin/Scripts` on Windows)
3. Install requirements: `pip install -r requirements.txt`
4. Launch Streamlit application: `streamlit run app.py`


## File organization
Adding Apache Hamilton to your Streamlit application can provide a better separation between the dataflow and the UI logic. They pair nicely together because Apache Hamilton is also stateless. Once defined, each call to `Driver.execute()` is independent. Therefore, on each Streamlit rerun, you use `Driver.execute()` to complete computations. Using Apache Hamilton this way allows you to write your dataflow into Python modules and outside of the Streamlit.

### logic.py
Apache Hamilton transformations are defined in the module `logic.py`. This includes downloading the data from the web, getting unique values for `job`, conducting groupby aggregates, and creating `plotly` figures.

### app.py
The Streamlit UI is defined in `app.py`. Notice a few things:
- `app.py` doesn't have to depend on `pandas` and `plotly`.
- `@cache_resource` allows to create the `Driver` only once.
- `@cache_data` on `_execute()` will automatically cache any Apache Hamilton result based on the combination of arguments (`final_vars`, `inputs`, and `overrides`)
- `get_state_inputs()` and `get_state_overrides()` will collect values from user inputs.
- `execute()` parses the inputs and overrides from the state and call `_execute()`.


## Benefits
- **Clearer scope**: the decoupling between `app.py` and `logic.py` makes it easier to add data transformations or extend UI, and debug errors associated with either.
- **Reusable code**: the module `logic.py` can be reused elsewhere with Apache Hamilton.
    - If you are building a proof-of-concept with Streamlit, your Apache Hamilton module will be able to grow with your project and be useful for your production pipelines.
    - If you are already building dataflows with Apache Hamilton, using it with Streamlit ensures your dashboard metrics have the same implementation with your production pipeline (i.e., prevent [implementation skew](https://building.nubank.com.br/dealing-with-train-serve-skew-in-real-time-ml-models-a-short-guide/))
- **Performance boost**: by caching the Apache Hamilton Driver and its execution call, we are able to effectively cache all data operations in a few lines of code. Furthermore, Apache Hamilton can scale further by using a remote task executor on a separate machine from the Streamlit application.
