examples/dagster/README.md, before:

# Dagster + Hamilton

This repository compares how to build dataflows with macro orchestrator Dagster and the micro orchestrator Hamilton.

> see the [side-by-side comparison](https://hamilton.dagworks.io/en/latest/code-comparisons/dagster/) in the Hamilton documentation

## Content
- `dagster_code/` includes code from the [Dagster tutorial](https://docs.dagster.io/tutorial) to load data and compute statistics from the website [HackerNews](https://news.ycombinator.com/).
- `hamilton_code/` is a refactor of `dagster_tutorial/` using the Hamilton framework.

Each directory contains instructions on how to run the code. We suggest going through the Dagster code first, then read the Hamilton refactor.

## Setup
1. Create a virtual environment and activate it
    ```console
    python -m venv venv && . venv/bin/active
    ```

2. Install requirements for both Dagster and Hamilton
    ```console
    pip install -r requirements.txt
    ```

3. Dagster-specific instructions are found under `dagster_code/`

Commit message:

Replaces most links and Hamilton references (#1339)
This does I think most of the work required to shift to the new docs
by replacing links and naming where appropriate.

This is still missing critical parts that we need in our docs, e.g. the
standard Apache boilerplate ...


Squashed commits --
* Replaces most links

This does not replace the hamilton.dagworks.io links
until we have hamilton.apache.org set up and running.

* Updates docs to reference Hamilton as Apache Hamilton

I spot checked this.

* Adds ability to build and publish docs

This does a few things:

1. Adds .github workflow to build things
2. Adds .asf.yaml that specifies that a site should be built and deployed.

No real design decisions, other than this seems to work and is low effort.

Squashed commits below:

Adds to asf.yaml and attempts to write to docs to branch (+4 squashed commits)
Squashed commits:
[e44ca55e] Adds incubating reference
[486c57fc] Adds pushing to asf-* branches

Will see if this works.
[4312df53] Fixes docs and creates PDF
[919ccc22] Adds github workflow to build docs

WIP commit.

* Adds incubating to main.md

* Changes references to hamilton.apache.org

This change updates links to the right documentation domain.

* Tries to make badges work

* Fixes whitespace

* Increase fetch depth for docs build in workflows

Was getting a too shallow warning. Gemini suggested
increasing the fetch depth - so I set it to 0 to check
out the whole repo.

* Adds link to PDF

* Found more places that I missed changing the domain

I missed these domain changes. Note the docs don't have
en/latest/ on them.

* Reduces overuse of Apache Hamilton

Since in most cases Hamilton suffices when describing concepts within
Hamilton.

examples/dagster/README.md, after:

# Dagster + Apache Hamilton

This repository compares how to build dataflows with macro orchestrator Dagster and the micro orchestrator Apache Hamilton.

> see the [side-by-side comparison](https://hamilton.apache.org/code-comparisons/dagster/) in the Apache Hamilton documentation

## Content
- `dagster_code/` includes code from the [Dagster tutorial](https://docs.dagster.io/tutorial) to load data and compute statistics from the website [HackerNews](https://news.ycombinator.com/).
- `hamilton_code/` is a refactor of `dagster_tutorial/` using the Apache Hamilton framework.

Each directory contains instructions on how to run the code. We suggest going through the Dagster code first, then read the Apache Hamilton refactor.

## Setup
1. Create a virtual environment and activate it
    ```console
    python -m venv venv && . venv/bin/active
    ```

2. Install requirements for both Dagster and Apache Hamilton
    ```console
    pip install -r requirements.txt
    ```

3. Dagster-specific instructions are found under `dagster_code/`
