examples/data_quality/pandera/README.md, before:

# Pandera Data Quality Example
Here we show how one can define some transformation logic that uses the new Hamilton data quality feature with [Pandera](https://pandera.readthedocs.io/)
In addition, we also show how you can manage execution on top of Ray, Pandas on Spark.

This example is ALMOST IDENTICAL to `examples/data_quality/simple` except that it instead uses Pandera as input to
`@check_output`, and has a different feature logic file for Spark. Pandera supports all "dataframe" like data types, so works across
Pandas, Dask, and Pandas on Spark.

# The task
We want to create some features for input to training a model. The task is to try to predict absenteeism at work.
Inspiration comes from [here](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/6263151) and [here](https://github.com/outerbounds/hamilton-metaflow).

## Parts:
There are three parts to this task.

1. Write data loading logic.
2. Write feature transform logic.
3. Writing logic to materialize a dataframe from the above two parts.

These three parts map to the files laid out below -- with part (3) having multiple possible files.

We will be adding `@check_output` decorators to step (2). You could add them to step (1) if you like, but we omit that
here as an exercise for the reader.

## Example file set up
* Absenteeism_at_work.csv  - the raw data set. [Source](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/6263151).
* data_loaders.py - a module that says how the data should be loaded. If we want to use native data types (e.g. dask data types)
this is where we would make that happen.
* feature_logic.py - this module contains some feature transformation code. It is annotated with `@check_output`. The same codes
should happily run on top of Dask, and Ray.
* feature_logic_spark.py - this module contains some feature transformation code specific to running on top of Pandas on Spark.
Specifically, note that the data types checked against are different than in `feature_logic.py`.
* run.py - this is the default Hamilton way of materializing features.
* run_dask.py - this shows how one would materialize features using Dask.
* run_ray.py - this shows how one would materialize features using Ray.
* run_spark.py - this shows how one would materialize features using Pandas on Spark.

Each file should have some documentation at the top to help identify what it is and how you can use it.

## How to run
Running the code involves installing the right python dependencies, and then executing the code.
It is best practice to create a python virtual environment for each project/example; we omit showing that step here.

The DAG created for each way of executing is logically the same, though it might involve different functions
being executed in the case of `spark` and `dask`; the `@config.when*` decorators are used for this purpose.

Note: `importance` is not specified in the `@check_output`decorators found in feature_logic.py. The default
behavior is therefore invoked, which is to log a "warning" and not stop execution. If stopping execution is desired,
`importance="fail"` should then be added to the decorators; more centralized control is going to be added in future releases.

### Normal Hamilton

> pip install -r requirements.txt
> python run.py

### Hamilton on Dask
It is best practice to create a python virtual environment for each project/example. We omit showing that step here.
> pip install -r requirements-dask.txt
> python run_dask.py

### Hamilton on Ray
It is best practice to create a python virtual environment for each project/example. We omit showing that step here.
> pip install -r requirements-ray.txt
> python run_ray.py

### Hamilton on Pandas on Spark
It is best practice to create a python virtual environment for each project/example. We omit showing that step here.
> pip install -r requirements-spark.txt
> python run_spark.py


# Visualizing Execution
Again you'll see that the visualizations don't change much between the different ways of executing. But to help you
visualize what's going on, here is the output of `visualize_execution` for each of them.

## Vanilla Hamilton
![run](./run.png)

## Dask
![run_dask](./run_dask.png)

## Ray
![run_ray](./run_ray.png)

## Pandas on Spark
![run_spark](./run_spark.png)

Commit message:

Replaces most links and Hamilton references (#1339)
This does I think most of the work required to shift to the new docs
by replacing links and naming where appropriate.

This is still missing critical parts that we need in our docs, e.g. the
standard Apache boilerplate ...


Squashed commits --
* Replaces most links

This does not replace the hamilton.dagworks.io links
until we have hamilton.apache.org set up and running.

* Updates docs to reference Hamilton as Apache Hamilton

I spot checked this.

* Adds ability to build and publish docs

This does a few things:

1. Adds .github workflow to build things
2. Adds .asf.yaml that specifies that a site should be built and deployed.

No real design decisions, other than this seems to work and is low effort.

Squashed commits below:

Adds to asf.yaml and attempts to write to docs to branch (+4 squashed commits)
Squashed commits:
[e44ca55e] Adds incubating reference
[486c57fc] Adds pushing to asf-* branches

Will see if this works.
[4312df53] Fixes docs and creates PDF
[919ccc22] Adds github workflow to build docs

WIP commit.

* Adds incubating to main.md

* Changes references to hamilton.apache.org

This change updates links to the right documentation domain.

* Tries to make badges work

* Fixes whitespace

* Increase fetch depth for docs build in workflows

Was getting a too shallow warning. Gemini suggested
increasing the fetch depth - so I set it to 0 to check
out the whole repo.

* Adds link to PDF

* Found more places that I missed changing the domain

I missed these domain changes. Note the docs don't have
en/latest/ on them.

* Reduces overuse of Apache Hamilton

Since in most cases Hamilton suffices when describing concepts within
Hamilton.

examples/data_quality/pandera/README.md, after:

# Pandera Data Quality Example
Here we show how one can define some transformation logic that uses the new Apache Hamilton data quality feature with [Pandera](https://pandera.readthedocs.io/)
In addition, we also show how you can manage execution on top of Ray, Pandas on Spark.

This example is ALMOST IDENTICAL to `examples/data_quality/simple` except that it instead uses Pandera as input to
`@check_output`, and has a different feature logic file for Spark. Pandera supports all "dataframe" like data types, so works across
Pandas, Dask, and Pandas on Spark.

# The task
We want to create some features for input to training a model. The task is to try to predict absenteeism at work.
Inspiration comes from [here](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/6263151) and [here](https://github.com/outerbounds/hamilton-metaflow).

## Parts:
There are three parts to this task.

1. Write data loading logic.
2. Write feature transform logic.
3. Writing logic to materialize a dataframe from the above two parts.

These three parts map to the files laid out below -- with part (3) having multiple possible files.

We will be adding `@check_output` decorators to step (2). You could add them to step (1) if you like, but we omit that
here as an exercise for the reader.

## Example file set up
* Absenteeism_at_work.csv  - the raw data set. [Source](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/6263151).
* data_loaders.py - a module that says how the data should be loaded. If we want to use native data types (e.g. dask data types)
this is where we would make that happen.
* feature_logic.py - this module contains some feature transformation code. It is annotated with `@check_output`. The same codes
should happily run on top of Dask, and Ray.
* feature_logic_spark.py - this module contains some feature transformation code specific to running on top of Pandas on Spark.
Specifically, note that the data types checked against are different than in `feature_logic.py`.
* run.py - this is the default Apache Hamilton way of materializing features.
* run_dask.py - this shows how one would materialize features using Dask.
* run_ray.py - this shows how one would materialize features using Ray.
* run_spark.py - this shows how one would materialize features using Pandas on Spark.

Each file should have some documentation at the top to help identify what it is and how you can use it.

## How to run
Running the code involves installing the right python dependencies, and then executing the code.
It is best practice to create a python virtual environment for each project/example; we omit showing that step here.

The DAG created for each way of executing is logically the same, though it might involve different functions
being executed in the case of `spark` and `dask`; the `@config.when*` decorators are used for this purpose.

Note: `importance` is not specified in the `@check_output`decorators found in feature_logic.py. The default
behavior is therefore invoked, which is to log a "warning" and not stop execution. If stopping execution is desired,
`importance="fail"` should then be added to the decorators; more centralized control is going to be added in future releases.

### Normal Apache Hamilton

> pip install -r requirements.txt
> python run.py

### Apache Hamilton on Dask
It is best practice to create a python virtual environment for each project/example. We omit showing that step here.
> pip install -r requirements-dask.txt
> python run_dask.py

### Apache Hamilton on Ray
It is best practice to create a python virtual environment for each project/example. We omit showing that step here.
> pip install -r requirements-ray.txt
> python run_ray.py

### Apache Hamilton on Pandas on Spark
It is best practice to create a python virtual environment for each project/example. We omit showing that step here.
> pip install -r requirements-spark.txt
> python run_spark.py


# Visualizing Execution
Again you'll see that the visualizations don't change much between the different ways of executing. But to help you
visualize what's going on, here is the output of `visualize_execution` for each of them.

## Vanilla Apache Hamilton
![run](./run.png)

## Dask
![run_dask](./run_dask.png)

## Ray
![run_ray](./run_ray.png)

## Pandas on Spark
![run_spark](./run_spark.png)
