examples/ibis/feature_engineering/README.md, before:

# Ibis + Hamilton

[Ibis](https://ibis-project.org/) is a portable dataframe library to write procedural data transformations in Python and be able to execute them directly on various SQL backends (DuckDB, Snowflake, Postgres, Flink, see [full list](https://ibis-project.org/support_matrix)). Hamilton provides a declarative way to define testable, modular, self-documenting dataflows, that encode lineage and metadata.

In this example, we'll show how to get started with creating feature transformations and training a machine learning model. You'll learn about the basics of Ibis and IbisML and how they integrate with Hamilton.


![column-level feature engineering](./columns.png)


# Running the example
Follow these steps to get the example working:
1. create and activate virtual environment

    ```script
    python -m venv venv & . venv/bin/activate
    ```
2. install requirements

    ```script
    pip install -r requirements.txt
    ```

3. execute the Hamilton feature engineering dataflow at the table or column level

    ```script
    python run.py --level [table, column]
    ```

# Files
- `table_dataflow.py` and `column_dataflow.py` include the same Ibis feature engineering dataflow, but with different level of granularity
- `tables.png` and `columns.png` were generated by Hamilton directly from the code.
- `ibis_feature_set.png` was generated by Ibis. It describes the atomic data transformations executed by the expression.


# Resources
- [Learn more about Hamilton + Ibis](https://hamilton.dagworks.io/en/latest/integrations/ibis/)
- [Ibis documentation](https://ibis-project.org/)

Commit message:

Replaces most links and Hamilton references (#1339)
This does I think most of the work required to shift to the new docs
by replacing links and naming where appropriate.

This is still missing critical parts that we need in our docs, e.g. the
standard Apache boilerplate ...


Squashed commits --
* Replaces most links

This does not replace the hamilton.dagworks.io links
until we have hamilton.apache.org set up and running.

* Updates docs to reference Hamilton as Apache Hamilton

I spot checked this.

* Adds ability to build and publish docs

This does a few things:

1. Adds .github workflow to build things
2. Adds .asf.yaml that specifies that a site should be built and deployed.

No real design decisions, other than this seems to work and is low effort.

Squashed commits below:

Adds to asf.yaml and attempts to write to docs to branch (+4 squashed commits)
Squashed commits:
[e44ca55e] Adds incubating reference
[486c57fc] Adds pushing to asf-* branches

Will see if this works.
[4312df53] Fixes docs and creates PDF
[919ccc22] Adds github workflow to build docs

WIP commit.

* Adds incubating to main.md

* Changes references to hamilton.apache.org

This change updates links to the right documentation domain.

* Tries to make badges work

* Fixes whitespace

* Increase fetch depth for docs build in workflows

Was getting a too shallow warning. Gemini suggested
increasing the fetch depth - so I set it to 0 to check
out the whole repo.

* Adds link to PDF

* Found more places that I missed changing the domain

I missed these domain changes. Note the docs don't have
en/latest/ on them.

* Reduces overuse of Apache Hamilton

Since in most cases Hamilton suffices when describing concepts within
Hamilton.

examples/ibis/feature_engineering/README.md, after:

# Ibis + Apache Hamilton

[Ibis](https://ibis-project.org/) is a portable dataframe library to write procedural data transformations in Python and be able to execute them directly on various SQL backends (DuckDB, Snowflake, Postgres, Flink, see [full list](https://ibis-project.org/support_matrix)). Apache Hamilton provides a declarative way to define testable, modular, self-documenting dataflows, that encode lineage and metadata.

In this example, we'll show how to get started with creating feature transformations and training a machine learning model. You'll learn about the basics of Ibis and IbisML and how they integrate with Apache Hamilton.


![column-level feature engineering](./columns.png)


# Running the example
Follow these steps to get the example working:
1. create and activate virtual environment

    ```script
    python -m venv venv & . venv/bin/activate
    ```
2. install requirements

    ```script
    pip install -r requirements.txt
    ```

3. execute the Apache Hamilton feature engineering dataflow at the table or column level

    ```script
    python run.py --level [table, column]
    ```

# Files
- `table_dataflow.py` and `column_dataflow.py` include the same Ibis feature engineering dataflow, but with different level of granularity
- `tables.png` and `columns.png` were generated by Apache Hamilton directly from the code.
- `ibis_feature_set.png` was generated by Ibis. It describes the atomic data transformations executed by the expression.


# Resources
- [Learn more about Apache Hamilton + Ibis](https://hamilton.apache.org/integrations/ibis/)
- [Ibis documentation](https://ibis-project.org/)
