docs/hamilton-vscode/language_server.rst, before:

---------------
Language Server
---------------

.. warning::

    The Hamilton Language Server is an experimental feature under active development. Edge cases, evolving features, and partial documentation are to be expected. Please  open a GitHub issue or reach out on Slack for troubleshooting!


The Hamilton Language Server is an implementation of the `Language Server Protocol (LSP) <https://microsoft.github.io/language-server-protocol/>`_. It is designed to power the :doc:`Hamilton VSCode extension <./vscode_extension>` which can be installed directly from the `VSCode marketplace <https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=DAGWorks.hamilton-vsc>`_.

Language servers power IDE features like completion suggestion, go to definition, collect document symbols, etc. The LSP standard was established to make servers portable across IDE frontends (e.g., VSCode, PyCharm, Emacs). `Learn more <https://code.visualstudio.com/api/language-extensions/language-server-extension-guide>`_.

Installation
------------

If you're using the Hamilton VSCode extension, you will prompted to install the language server if it's not found. Simply click the button and it will install it in your current Python interpreter.

You can also manually install the language server in your Python environment via

.. code:: shell

    pip install "sf-hamilton[lsp]"


Developers
----------

If you want to dig in the internals of the language server and integrate it with another IDE, you can find the source code in the ``dev tools/`` section of the `Hamilton GitHub repository <https://github.com/DAGWorks-Inc/hamilton/tree/main/dev_tools/lsp>`_. It is also directly available on PyPi at `sf-hamilton-lsp <https://pypi.org/project/sf-hamilton-lsp/>`_.

Note that the package name is ``hamilton_lsp`` when used directly via Python code.

Commit message:

Replaces most links and Hamilton references (#1339)
This does I think most of the work required to shift to the new docs
by replacing links and naming where appropriate.

This is still missing critical parts that we need in our docs, e.g. the
standard Apache boilerplate ...


Squashed commits --
* Replaces most links

This does not replace the hamilton.dagworks.io links
until we have hamilton.apache.org set up and running.

* Updates docs to reference Hamilton as Apache Hamilton

I spot checked this.

* Adds ability to build and publish docs

This does a few things:

1. Adds .github workflow to build things
2. Adds .asf.yaml that specifies that a site should be built and deployed.

No real design decisions, other than this seems to work and is low effort.

Squashed commits below:

Adds to asf.yaml and attempts to write to docs to branch (+4 squashed commits)
Squashed commits:
[e44ca55e] Adds incubating reference
[486c57fc] Adds pushing to asf-* branches

Will see if this works.
[4312df53] Fixes docs and creates PDF
[919ccc22] Adds github workflow to build docs

WIP commit.

* Adds incubating to main.md

* Changes references to hamilton.apache.org

This change updates links to the right documentation domain.

* Tries to make badges work

* Fixes whitespace

* Increase fetch depth for docs build in workflows

Was getting a too shallow warning. Gemini suggested
increasing the fetch depth - so I set it to 0 to check
out the whole repo.

* Adds link to PDF

* Found more places that I missed changing the domain

I missed these domain changes. Note the docs don't have
en/latest/ on them.

* Reduces overuse of Apache Hamilton

Since in most cases Hamilton suffices when describing concepts within
Hamilton.

docs/hamilton-vscode/language_server.rst, after:

---------------
Language Server
---------------

.. warning::

    The Apache Hamilton Language Server is an experimental feature under active development. Edge cases, evolving features, and partial documentation are to be expected. Please  open a GitHub issue or reach out on Slack for troubleshooting!


The Apache Hamilton Language Server is an implementation of the `Language Server Protocol (LSP) <https://microsoft.github.io/language-server-protocol/>`_. It is designed to power the :doc:`Apache Hamilton VSCode extension <./vscode_extension>` which can be installed directly from the `VSCode marketplace <https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=DAGWorks.hamilton-vsc>`_.

Language servers power IDE features like completion suggestion, go to definition, collect document symbols, etc. The LSP standard was established to make servers portable across IDE frontends (e.g., VSCode, PyCharm, Emacs). `Learn more <https://code.visualstudio.com/api/language-extensions/language-server-extension-guide>`_.

Installation
------------

If you're using the Apache Hamilton VSCode extension, you will prompted to install the language server if it's not found. Simply click the button and it will install it in your current Python interpreter.

You can also manually install the language server in your Python environment via

.. code:: shell

    pip install "sf-hamilton[lsp]"


Developers
----------

If you want to dig in the internals of the language server and integrate it with another IDE, you can find the source code in the ``dev tools/`` section of the `Apache Hamilton GitHub repository <https://github.com/apache/hamilton/tree/main/dev_tools/lsp>`_. It is also directly available on PyPi at `sf-hamilton-lsp <https://pypi.org/project/sf-hamilton-lsp/>`_.

Note that the package name is ``hamilton_lsp`` when used directly via Python code.
