docs/hamilton-vscode/vscode_extension.rst, before:

-------------------------
Hamilton VSCode
-------------------------

.. warning::

    The Hamilton VSCode extension is an experimental feature under active development. Edge cases, evolving features, and partial documentation are to be expected. Please  open a GitHub issue or reach out on Slack for troubleshooting!

The Hamilton VSCode extension enables interactive dataflow development in VSCode. This developer productivity tool helps your editor understand how Hamilton works (code completion, symbol navigation, etc.). It is powered by the :doc:`Hamilton Language Server <./language_server>` and can be installed directly from the `VSCode marketplace <https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=DAGWorks.hamilton-vsc>`_.

Features
--------

Dataflow visualization
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Visualize the dataflow defined in the current Python file. As you type and add functions, the visualization automatically updates. There is a UI button to rotate the visualization 90-degree.

.. image:: ./_screenshots/dag_view.png
    :alt: Browser

.. note::

    We suggest moving the visualization tab to the VSCode panel (``CTRL+J``) or the secondary sidebar (``CTRL+ALT+B``) by drag-and-dropping the tab.


Completion suggestions
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Get completion suggestions when defining new nodes. It will even insert the appropriate type when selected! Completion suggestions have the ``Node`` type and can even display their docstring when hovered over.

.. image:: ./_screenshots/completion_with_type.png
    :alt: Browser


Outline
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The **OUTLINE** menu now displays a **Hamilton VSCode** entry. Nodes and inputs from the current Python file are listed and denoted by distinct icons.

.. image:: ./_screenshots/symbol_outline.png
    :alt: Browser


Symbol navigation
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

When entering symbol navigation (``CTRL+SHIFT+O``), you can jump directly to any node definition. Notice from the screenshot that it even pickups node defined in a decorator.

.. image:: ./_screenshots/symbol_navigation.png
    :alt: Browser


Extension walkthrough
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Under the Hamilton menu (the icon at the top), you can find a list of buttons. Selecting ``Walkthrough`` and then ``Get started with Hamilton`` will launch an interactive menu to get you set up along with some tips.

.. image:: ./_screenshots/links_walkthrough.png
    :alt: Browser

.. note::

    Some of this content may become outdated since the extension is evolving quickly.


Roadmap
-------
There are many features that we'd be interested in implementing. Let us know on `Slack <https://join.slack.com/t/hamilton-opensource/shared_invite/zt-2niepkra8-DGKGf_tTYhXuJWBTXtIs4g>`_ your favorite ones!

- Go To Definition: jump to where the node defined
- Go To References: jump to where the node is a dependency
- Rename: rename a node across locations (can be tricky when mentioned in a decorator)
- Support dataflows spanning multiple modules
- Configure the visualization (i.e., match the Python features)
- Integrate with the Hamilton UI (e.g., click a node to open it's Hamilton UI page and see execution details)
- Visualize notebook cells using the Hamilton Jupyter extension (seems possible)

Commit message:

Replaces most links and Hamilton references (#1339)
This does I think most of the work required to shift to the new docs
by replacing links and naming where appropriate.

This is still missing critical parts that we need in our docs, e.g. the
standard Apache boilerplate ...


Squashed commits --
* Replaces most links

This does not replace the hamilton.dagworks.io links
until we have hamilton.apache.org set up and running.

* Updates docs to reference Hamilton as Apache Hamilton

I spot checked this.

* Adds ability to build and publish docs

This does a few things:

1. Adds .github workflow to build things
2. Adds .asf.yaml that specifies that a site should be built and deployed.

No real design decisions, other than this seems to work and is low effort.

Squashed commits below:

Adds to asf.yaml and attempts to write to docs to branch (+4 squashed commits)
Squashed commits:
[e44ca55e] Adds incubating reference
[486c57fc] Adds pushing to asf-* branches

Will see if this works.
[4312df53] Fixes docs and creates PDF
[919ccc22] Adds github workflow to build docs

WIP commit.

* Adds incubating to main.md

* Changes references to hamilton.apache.org

This change updates links to the right documentation domain.

* Tries to make badges work

* Fixes whitespace

* Increase fetch depth for docs build in workflows

Was getting a too shallow warning. Gemini suggested
increasing the fetch depth - so I set it to 0 to check
out the whole repo.

* Adds link to PDF

* Found more places that I missed changing the domain

I missed these domain changes. Note the docs don't have
en/latest/ on them.

* Reduces overuse of Apache Hamilton

Since in most cases Hamilton suffices when describing concepts within
Hamilton.

docs/hamilton-vscode/vscode_extension.rst, after:

-------------------------
Apache Hamilton VSCode
-------------------------

.. warning::

    The Apache Hamilton VSCode extension is an experimental feature under active development. Edge cases, evolving features, and partial documentation are to be expected. Please  open a GitHub issue or reach out on Slack for troubleshooting!

The Apache Hamilton VSCode extension enables interactive dataflow development in VSCode. This developer productivity tool helps your editor understand how Apache Hamilton works (code completion, symbol navigation, etc.). It is powered by the :doc:`Apache Hamilton Language Server <./language_server>` and can be installed directly from the `VSCode marketplace <https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=DAGWorks.hamilton-vsc>`_.

Features
--------

Dataflow visualization
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Visualize the dataflow defined in the current Python file. As you type and add functions, the visualization automatically updates. There is a UI button to rotate the visualization 90-degree.

.. image:: ./_screenshots/dag_view.png
    :alt: Browser

.. note::

    We suggest moving the visualization tab to the VSCode panel (``CTRL+J``) or the secondary sidebar (``CTRL+ALT+B``) by drag-and-dropping the tab.


Completion suggestions
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Get completion suggestions when defining new nodes. It will even insert the appropriate type when selected! Completion suggestions have the ``Node`` type and can even display their docstring when hovered over.

.. image:: ./_screenshots/completion_with_type.png
    :alt: Browser


Outline
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The **OUTLINE** menu now displays a **Apache Hamilton VSCode** entry. Nodes and inputs from the current Python file are listed and denoted by distinct icons.

.. image:: ./_screenshots/symbol_outline.png
    :alt: Browser


Symbol navigation
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

When entering symbol navigation (``CTRL+SHIFT+O``), you can jump directly to any node definition. Notice from the screenshot that it even pickups node defined in a decorator.

.. image:: ./_screenshots/symbol_navigation.png
    :alt: Browser


Extension walkthrough
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Under the Apache Hamilton menu (the icon at the top), you can find a list of buttons. Selecting ``Walkthrough`` and then ``Get started with Apache Hamilton`` will launch an interactive menu to get you set up along with some tips.

.. image:: ./_screenshots/links_walkthrough.png
    :alt: Browser

.. note::

    Some of this content may become outdated since the extension is evolving quickly.


Roadmap
-------
There are many features that we'd be interested in implementing. Let us know on `Slack <https://join.slack.com/t/hamilton-opensource/shared_invite/zt-2niepkra8-DGKGf_tTYhXuJWBTXtIs4g>`_ your favorite ones!

- Go To Definition: jump to where the node defined
- Go To References: jump to where the node is a dependency
- Rename: rename a node across locations (can be tricky when mentioned in a decorator)
- Support dataflows spanning multiple modules
- Configure the visualization (i.e., match the Python features)
- Integrate with the Apache Hamilton UI (e.g., click a node to open it's Apache Hamilton UI page and see execution details)
- Visualize notebook cells using the Apache Hamilton Jupyter extension (seems possible)
