examples/scikit-learn/transformer/README.md, before:

# Classic Hamilton Hello World

In this example we show you a custom scikit-learn `Transformer` class. This class should be compliant with [scikit-learn transformers specifications](https://scikit-learn.org/stable/developers/develop.html). This class is meant to be used as part of broader scikit-learn pipelines. Scikit-learn estimators and pipelines allow for stateful objects, which are helpful when applying transformations on train-test splits notably. Also, all pipeline, estimator, and transformer objects should be picklable, enabling reproducible pipelines.

File organization:

* `my_functions_a.py` and `my_functions_b.py` house the logic that we want to compute.
* `run.py` runs the DAG and asserts the properties of the output for basic use cases.

To run things:
```bash
> python run.py
```
You can even run this example in Google Colab:
[![Open In Colab](https://colab.research.google.com/assets/colab-badge.svg)
](https://colab.research.google.com/github/dagworks-inc/hamilton/blob/main/examples/scikit-learn/hamilton_notebook.ipynb)



# DAG Visualization:
Here is the visualization of the execution that the transformer currently performs if you run `run.py`:

![scikit_transformer](scikit_transformer.png)

# Limitations and TODOs
- The current implementation relies on Hamilton defaults' `base.HamiltonGraphAdapter` and `base.PandasDataFrameResult` which limits the compatibility with other computation engines supported by Hamilton
- The current implementation could be improved for deeper object inspection. A particular challenge is that the Hamilton driver alters the number of columns / features of the input array, and does so by specifying the *output columns*. In contrast, scikit-learn typically reads columns / features of the *input array* and passes it down. It would be worth looking at [the output feature naming convention](https://scikit-learn.org/stable/developers/develop.html#developer-api-for-set-output) and the [`ColumnTransformer` class](https://scikit-learn.org/stable/modules/generated/sklearn.compose.ColumnTransformer.html#sklearn.compose.ColumnTransformer) which aims to fulfill a similar objective to Hamilton.
- The current implementation allows little direct access to the `Hamilton driver`. Currently, the driver accessible via the `.driver_` attribute after calling `.fit()` or `.fit_transform()` which seems to be coherent with typical scikit-learn behavior.
- The current implementation could be slightly modified to have no dependencies on scikit-learn itself. However, having inheriting from `BaseEstimator` and `TransformerMixin` provides some clarity about the class's purpose.

Commit message:

Replaces most links and Hamilton references (#1339)
This does I think most of the work required to shift to the new docs
by replacing links and naming where appropriate.

This is still missing critical parts that we need in our docs, e.g. the
standard Apache boilerplate ...


Squashed commits --
* Replaces most links

This does not replace the hamilton.dagworks.io links
until we have hamilton.apache.org set up and running.

* Updates docs to reference Hamilton as Apache Hamilton

I spot checked this.

* Adds ability to build and publish docs

This does a few things:

1. Adds .github workflow to build things
2. Adds .asf.yaml that specifies that a site should be built and deployed.

No real design decisions, other than this seems to work and is low effort.

Squashed commits below:

Adds to asf.yaml and attempts to write to docs to branch (+4 squashed commits)
Squashed commits:
[e44ca55e] Adds incubating reference
[486c57fc] Adds pushing to asf-* branches

Will see if this works.
[4312df53] Fixes docs and creates PDF
[919ccc22] Adds github workflow to build docs

WIP commit.

* Adds incubating to main.md

* Changes references to hamilton.apache.org

This change updates links to the right documentation domain.

* Tries to make badges work

* Fixes whitespace

* Increase fetch depth for docs build in workflows

Was getting a too shallow warning. Gemini suggested
increasing the fetch depth - so I set it to 0 to check
out the whole repo.

* Adds link to PDF

* Found more places that I missed changing the domain

I missed these domain changes. Note the docs don't have
en/latest/ on them.

* Reduces overuse of Apache Hamilton

Since in most cases Hamilton suffices when describing concepts within
Hamilton.

examples/scikit-learn/transformer/README.md, after:

# Classic Apache Hamilton Hello World

In this example we show you a custom scikit-learn `Transformer` class. This class should be compliant with [scikit-learn transformers specifications](https://scikit-learn.org/stable/developers/develop.html). This class is meant to be used as part of broader scikit-learn pipelines. Scikit-learn estimators and pipelines allow for stateful objects, which are helpful when applying transformations on train-test splits notably. Also, all pipeline, estimator, and transformer objects should be picklable, enabling reproducible pipelines.

File organization:

* `my_functions_a.py` and `my_functions_b.py` house the logic that we want to compute.
* `run.py` runs the DAG and asserts the properties of the output for basic use cases.

To run things:
```bash
> python run.py
```
You can even run this example in Google Colab:
[![Open In Colab](https://colab.research.google.com/assets/colab-badge.svg)
](https://colab.research.google.com/github/dagworks-inc/hamilton/blob/main/examples/scikit-learn/hamilton_notebook.ipynb)



# DAG Visualization:
Here is the visualization of the execution that the transformer currently performs if you run `run.py`:

![scikit_transformer](scikit_transformer.png)

# Limitations and TODOs
- The current implementation relies on Apache Hamilton defaults' `base.HamiltonGraphAdapter` and `base.PandasDataFrameResult` which limits the compatibility with other computation engines supported by Apache Hamilton
- The current implementation could be improved for deeper object inspection. A particular challenge is that the Apache Hamilton driver alters the number of columns / features of the input array, and does so by specifying the *output columns*. In contrast, scikit-learn typically reads columns / features of the *input array* and passes it down. It would be worth looking at [the output feature naming convention](https://scikit-learn.org/stable/developers/develop.html#developer-api-for-set-output) and the [`ColumnTransformer` class](https://scikit-learn.org/stable/modules/generated/sklearn.compose.ColumnTransformer.html#sklearn.compose.ColumnTransformer) which aims to fulfill a similar objective to Apache Hamilton.
- The current implementation allows little direct access to the `Apache Hamilton driver`. Currently, the driver accessible via the `.driver_` attribute after calling `.fit()` or `.fit_transform()` which seems to be coherent with typical scikit-learn behavior.
- The current implementation could be slightly modified to have no dependencies on scikit-learn itself. However, having inheriting from `BaseEstimator` and `TransformerMixin` provides some clarity about the class's purpose.
