examples/kedro/hamilton-code/README.md, before:

# Hamilton code

![](src/hamilton_code/all_functions.png)
> Hamilton dataflow

## File structure
The Hamilton refactor is composed of a few files:
- `data_processing.py` and `data_science.py` contains regular Python functions to define the Hamilton dataflow. This is equivalent to Kedro's `pipeline.py` **and** `nodes.py` files.
- `run.py` contains the "driver code" to load and execute the dataflow. There's no direct equivalent in the Kedro tutorial since it prefers using the CLI for execution.
- `noteboks/interactive.ipynb` contains the "driver code", similar to `run.py`, but uses [Hamilton Jupyter Magics](https://hamilton.dagworks.io/en/latest/how-tos/use-in-jupyter-notebook/#use-hamilton-jupyter-magic) to define the dataflow interactily in a notebook.
- `tests/test_dataflow.py` includes tests equivalent to `tests/pipelines/data_science/test_pipeline.py` in the Kedro code.

## Instructions
1. Create a virtual environment and activate it
    ```console
    python -m venv venv && . venv/bin/active
    ```

2. Install requirements for the Hamilton code
    ```console
    pip install -r requirements.txt
    ```

3. Install the current `hamilton-code` project
    ```console
    pip install -e .
    ```

4. Run the dataflow
    ```console
    python run.py
    ```

5. Run the tests
    ```console
    pytest tests/
    ```

## Going further
- Learn the basics of Hamilton via the `Concepts/` [documentation section](https://hamilton.dagworks.io/en/latest/concepts/node/)
- Visit [tryhamilton.dev](tryhamilton.dev) for an interactive tutorial in your browser
- Visit the [DAGWorks blog](https://blog.dagworks.io/) for more detailed guides

Commit message:

Replaces most links and Hamilton references (#1339)
This does I think most of the work required to shift to the new docs
by replacing links and naming where appropriate.

This is still missing critical parts that we need in our docs, e.g. the
standard Apache boilerplate ...


Squashed commits --
* Replaces most links

This does not replace the hamilton.dagworks.io links
until we have hamilton.apache.org set up and running.

* Updates docs to reference Hamilton as Apache Hamilton

I spot checked this.

* Adds ability to build and publish docs

This does a few things:

1. Adds .github workflow to build things
2. Adds .asf.yaml that specifies that a site should be built and deployed.

No real design decisions, other than this seems to work and is low effort.

Squashed commits below:

Adds to asf.yaml and attempts to write to docs to branch (+4 squashed commits)
Squashed commits:
[e44ca55e] Adds incubating reference
[486c57fc] Adds pushing to asf-* branches

Will see if this works.
[4312df53] Fixes docs and creates PDF
[919ccc22] Adds github workflow to build docs

WIP commit.

* Adds incubating to main.md

* Changes references to hamilton.apache.org

This change updates links to the right documentation domain.

* Tries to make badges work

* Fixes whitespace

* Increase fetch depth for docs build in workflows

Was getting a too shallow warning. Gemini suggested
increasing the fetch depth - so I set it to 0 to check
out the whole repo.

* Adds link to PDF

* Found more places that I missed changing the domain

I missed these domain changes. Note the docs don't have
en/latest/ on them.

* Reduces overuse of Apache Hamilton

Since in most cases Hamilton suffices when describing concepts within
Hamilton.

examples/kedro/hamilton-code/README.md, after:

# Apache Hamilton code

![](src/hamilton_code/all_functions.png)
> Apache Hamilton dataflow

## File structure
The Apache Hamilton refactor is composed of a few files:
- `data_processing.py` and `data_science.py` contains regular Python functions to define the Apache Hamilton dataflow. This is equivalent to Kedro's `pipeline.py` **and** `nodes.py` files.
- `run.py` contains the "driver code" to load and execute the dataflow. There's no direct equivalent in the Kedro tutorial since it prefers using the CLI for execution.
- `noteboks/interactive.ipynb` contains the "driver code", similar to `run.py`, but uses [Apache Hamilton Jupyter Magics](https://hamilton.apache.org/how-tos/use-in-jupyter-notebook/#use-hamilton-jupyter-magic) to define the dataflow interactily in a notebook.
- `tests/test_dataflow.py` includes tests equivalent to `tests/pipelines/data_science/test_pipeline.py` in the Kedro code.

## Instructions
1. Create a virtual environment and activate it
    ```console
    python -m venv venv && . venv/bin/active
    ```

2. Install requirements for the Apache Hamilton code
    ```console
    pip install -r requirements.txt
    ```

3. Install the current `hamilton-code` project
    ```console
    pip install -e .
    ```

4. Run the dataflow
    ```console
    python run.py
    ```

5. Run the tests
    ```console
    pytest tests/
    ```

## Going further
- Learn the basics of Apache Hamilton via the `Concepts/` [documentation section](https://hamilton.apache.org/concepts/node/)
- Visit [tryhamilton.dev](tryhamilton.dev) for an interactive tutorial in your browser
- Visit the [DAGWorks blog](https://blog.dagworks.io/) for more detailed guides
