examples/due_date_probabilities/README.md, before:

# Modeling Pregnancy Due Dates using Hamilton

This is an example of developing and applying a simple statistical model using Hamilton
for a very common problem. What is the probability that a baby will be born (before, on, after)
X date?


You can find the notebook on google collab here:
<a target="_blank" href="https://colab.research.google.com/github/DAGWorks-Inc/hamilton/blob/main/examples/due_date_probabilities/notebook.ipynb">
  <img src="https://colab.research.google.com/assets/colab-badge.svg" alt="Open Me In Google Colab"/>
</a>

You can read the full description in the [post](https://blog.dagworks.io/p/181bb751-2e58-4e76-8d53-5a8c81ea16cb).

In this, you'll find the following files:

1. [notebook.ipynb](notebook.ipynb) - The Jupyter notebook that walks through the process of developing/running the model.
2. [base_dates.py] -- a Hamilton module that generates date-related series
3. [probability_estimation.py] -- a Hamilton module that computes a statistical model (estimating parameters for probability due dates)
4. [probabilities.py] -- a Hamilton module that runs that model over a set of dates

Run the notebook to see the process of developing the model and running it.

Commit message:

Replaces most links and Hamilton references (#1339)
This does I think most of the work required to shift to the new docs
by replacing links and naming where appropriate.

This is still missing critical parts that we need in our docs, e.g. the
standard Apache boilerplate ...


Squashed commits --
* Replaces most links

This does not replace the hamilton.dagworks.io links
until we have hamilton.apache.org set up and running.

* Updates docs to reference Hamilton as Apache Hamilton

I spot checked this.

* Adds ability to build and publish docs

This does a few things:

1. Adds .github workflow to build things
2. Adds .asf.yaml that specifies that a site should be built and deployed.

No real design decisions, other than this seems to work and is low effort.

Squashed commits below:

Adds to asf.yaml and attempts to write to docs to branch (+4 squashed commits)
Squashed commits:
[e44ca55e] Adds incubating reference
[486c57fc] Adds pushing to asf-* branches

Will see if this works.
[4312df53] Fixes docs and creates PDF
[919ccc22] Adds github workflow to build docs

WIP commit.

* Adds incubating to main.md

* Changes references to hamilton.apache.org

This change updates links to the right documentation domain.

* Tries to make badges work

* Fixes whitespace

* Increase fetch depth for docs build in workflows

Was getting a too shallow warning. Gemini suggested
increasing the fetch depth - so I set it to 0 to check
out the whole repo.

* Adds link to PDF

* Found more places that I missed changing the domain

I missed these domain changes. Note the docs don't have
en/latest/ on them.

* Reduces overuse of Apache Hamilton

Since in most cases Hamilton suffices when describing concepts within
Hamilton.

examples/due_date_probabilities/README.md, after:

# Modeling Pregnancy Due Dates using Apache Hamilton

This is an example of developing and applying a simple statistical model using Apache Hamilton
for a very common problem. What is the probability that a baby will be born (before, on, after)
X date?


You can find the notebook on google collab here:
<a target="_blank" href="https://colab.research.google.com/github/DAGWorks-Inc/hamilton/blob/main/examples/due_date_probabilities/notebook.ipynb">
  <img src="https://colab.research.google.com/assets/colab-badge.svg" alt="Open Me In Google Colab"/>
</a>

You can read the full description in the [post](https://blog.dagworks.io/p/181bb751-2e58-4e76-8d53-5a8c81ea16cb).

In this, you'll find the following files:

1. [notebook.ipynb](notebook.ipynb) - The Jupyter notebook that walks through the process of developing/running the model.
2. [base_dates.py] -- a Apache Hamilton module that generates date-related series
3. [probability_estimation.py] -- a Apache Hamilton module that computes a statistical model (estimating parameters for probability due dates)
4. [probabilities.py] -- a Apache Hamilton module that runs that model over a set of dates

Run the notebook to see the process of developing the model and running it.
