examples/mlflow/README.md, before:

# MLFLow plugin for Hamilton

[MLFlow](https://mlflow.org/) is an open-source Python framework for experiment tracking. It allows data science teams to store results, artifacts (machine learning models, figures, tables), and metadata in a principled way when executing data pipelines.

The MLFlow plugin for Hamilton includes two sets of features:
- Save and load machine learning models with the `MLFlowModelSaver` and `MLFlowModelLoader` materializers
- Automatically track data pipeline results in MLFlow with the `MLFlowTracker`.

This pairs nicely with the `HamiltonTracker` and the [Hamilton UI](https://hamilton.dagworks.io/en/latest/hamilton-ui/ui/) which gives you a way to explore your pipeline code, attributes of the artifacts produced, and execution observability.

We're working on better linking Hamilton "projects" with MLFlow "experiments" and runs from both projects.

## Instructions
1. Create a virtual environment and activate it
    ```console
    python -m venv venv && . venv/bin/active
    ```

2. Install requirements for the Hamilton code
    ```console
    pip install -r requirements.txt
    ```

3. Explore the notebook `tutorial.ipynb`


4. Launch the MLFlow user interface to explore results
    ```console
    mlflow ui
    ```

## Going further
- Learn the basics of Hamilton via the `Concepts/` [documentation section](https://hamilton.dagworks.io/en/latest/concepts/node/)
- Visit [tryhamilton.dev](tryhamilton.dev) for an interactive tutorial in your browser
- Visit the [DAGWorks blog](https://blog.dagworks.io/) for more detailed guides

Commit message:

Replaces most links and Hamilton references (#1339)
This does I think most of the work required to shift to the new docs
by replacing links and naming where appropriate.

This is still missing critical parts that we need in our docs, e.g. the
standard Apache boilerplate ...


Squashed commits --
* Replaces most links

This does not replace the hamilton.dagworks.io links
until we have hamilton.apache.org set up and running.

* Updates docs to reference Hamilton as Apache Hamilton

I spot checked this.

* Adds ability to build and publish docs

This does a few things:

1. Adds .github workflow to build things
2. Adds .asf.yaml that specifies that a site should be built and deployed.

No real design decisions, other than this seems to work and is low effort.

Squashed commits below:

Adds to asf.yaml and attempts to write to docs to branch (+4 squashed commits)
Squashed commits:
[e44ca55e] Adds incubating reference
[486c57fc] Adds pushing to asf-* branches

Will see if this works.
[4312df53] Fixes docs and creates PDF
[919ccc22] Adds github workflow to build docs

WIP commit.

* Adds incubating to main.md

* Changes references to hamilton.apache.org

This change updates links to the right documentation domain.

* Tries to make badges work

* Fixes whitespace

* Increase fetch depth for docs build in workflows

Was getting a too shallow warning. Gemini suggested
increasing the fetch depth - so I set it to 0 to check
out the whole repo.

* Adds link to PDF

* Found more places that I missed changing the domain

I missed these domain changes. Note the docs don't have
en/latest/ on them.

* Reduces overuse of Apache Hamilton

Since in most cases Hamilton suffices when describing concepts within
Hamilton.

examples/mlflow/README.md, after:

# MLFLow plugin for Apache Hamilton

[MLFlow](https://mlflow.org/) is an open-source Python framework for experiment tracking. It allows data science teams to store results, artifacts (machine learning models, figures, tables), and metadata in a principled way when executing data pipelines.

The MLFlow plugin for Apache Hamilton includes two sets of features:
- Save and load machine learning models with the `MLFlowModelSaver` and `MLFlowModelLoader` materializers
- Automatically track data pipeline results in MLFlow with the `MLFlowTracker`.

This pairs nicely with the `HamiltonTracker` and the [Apache Hamilton UI](https://hamilton.apache.org/hamilton-ui/ui/) which gives you a way to explore your pipeline code, attributes of the artifacts produced, and execution observability.

We're working on better linking Apache Hamilton "projects" with MLFlow "experiments" and runs from both projects.

## Instructions
1. Create a virtual environment and activate it
    ```console
    python -m venv venv && . venv/bin/active
    ```

2. Install requirements for the Apache Hamilton code
    ```console
    pip install -r requirements.txt
    ```

3. Explore the notebook `tutorial.ipynb`


4. Launch the MLFlow user interface to explore results
    ```console
    mlflow ui
    ```

## Going further
- Learn the basics of Apache Hamilton via the `Concepts/` [documentation section](https://hamilton.apache.org/concepts/node/)
- Visit [tryhamilton.dev](tryhamilton.dev) for an interactive tutorial in your browser
- Visit the [DAGWorks blog](https://blog.dagworks.io/) for more detailed guides
