docs/concepts/best-practices/migrating-to-hamilton.rst, before:

=====================
Migrating to Hamilton
=====================

Here are two suggestions for helping you migrate to Hamilton

Continuous Integration for Comparisons
--------------------------------------

Create a way to easily & frequently compare results.

#. Integrate with continuous integration (CI) system if you can.
#. 🔎🐛  Having a means that tests code early & often will helps diagnose bugs in your old code (most likely) or your new implementation (less likely).
#. Specifically, have a system to compare the output of your Hamilton code, to compare to the output of your existing system.

.. image:: ../../_static/Hamilton_ApplyMeetup_2022_migration_CI_1.svg
  :alt: Example CI process that we used at Stitch Fix for migrating to Hamilton

Integrate into your code base via a `"custom wrapper object"`
-------------------------------------------------------------

If you have existing systems that you want to integrate Hamilton into, it might require non-trivial effort for you to
change those systems to be able to use Hamilton. If that's the case, then we suggest creating a "custom object" to
"wrap" Hamilton, so that it's easier to migrate to it.

Specifically, this custom wrapper object class's purpose is to match your existing API expectations. It will act as the
translation layer from your existing API expectations, to what running Hamilton requires, and back. In Hamilton
terminology, this is a `Custom Driver Wrapper`, since it wraps around the Hamilton Driver class.

.. image:: ../../_static/Hamilton_ApplyMeetup_2022_wrapper.svg
  :alt: The wrapper driver class helps ensure your existing API expectations are matched.

This is a best practice because:

#. When migrating, it's best to avoid making too many changes. So don't change your API expectations if you can.
#. It allows you to easily insert Hamilton into any context. Thereby minimizing potential migration problems.

Commit message:

Replaces most links and Hamilton references (#1339)
This does I think most of the work required to shift to the new docs
by replacing links and naming where appropriate.

This is still missing critical parts that we need in our docs, e.g. the
standard Apache boilerplate ...


Squashed commits --
* Replaces most links

This does not replace the hamilton.dagworks.io links
until we have hamilton.apache.org set up and running.

* Updates docs to reference Hamilton as Apache Hamilton

I spot checked this.

* Adds ability to build and publish docs

This does a few things:

1. Adds .github workflow to build things
2. Adds .asf.yaml that specifies that a site should be built and deployed.

No real design decisions, other than this seems to work and is low effort.

Squashed commits below:

Adds to asf.yaml and attempts to write to docs to branch (+4 squashed commits)
Squashed commits:
[e44ca55e] Adds incubating reference
[486c57fc] Adds pushing to asf-* branches

Will see if this works.
[4312df53] Fixes docs and creates PDF
[919ccc22] Adds github workflow to build docs

WIP commit.

* Adds incubating to main.md

* Changes references to hamilton.apache.org

This change updates links to the right documentation domain.

* Tries to make badges work

* Fixes whitespace

* Increase fetch depth for docs build in workflows

Was getting a too shallow warning. Gemini suggested
increasing the fetch depth - so I set it to 0 to check
out the whole repo.

* Adds link to PDF

* Found more places that I missed changing the domain

I missed these domain changes. Note the docs don't have
en/latest/ on them.

* Reduces overuse of Apache Hamilton

Since in most cases Hamilton suffices when describing concepts within
Hamilton.

docs/concepts/best-practices/migrating-to-hamilton.rst, after:

=============================
Migrating to Apache Hamilton
=============================

Here are two suggestions for helping you migrate to Apache Hamilton

Continuous Integration for Comparisons
--------------------------------------

Create a way to easily & frequently compare results.

#. Integrate with continuous integration (CI) system if you can.
#. 🔎🐛  Having a means that tests code early & often will helps diagnose bugs in your old code (most likely) or your new implementation (less likely).
#. Specifically, have a system to compare the output of your Apache Hamilton code, to compare to the output of your existing system.

.. image:: ../../_static/Hamilton_ApplyMeetup_2022_migration_CI_1.svg
  :alt: Example CI process that we used at Stitch Fix for migrating to Apache Hamilton

Integrate into your code base via a `"custom wrapper object"`
-------------------------------------------------------------

If you have existing systems that you want to integrate Apache Hamilton into, it might require non-trivial effort for you to
change those systems to be able to use Apache Hamilton. If that's the case, then we suggest creating a "custom object" to
"wrap" Apache Hamilton, so that it's easier to migrate to it.

Specifically, this custom wrapper object class's purpose is to match your existing API expectations. It will act as the
translation layer from your existing API expectations, to what running Apache Hamilton requires, and back. In Apache Hamilton
terminology, this is a `Custom Driver Wrapper`, since it wraps around the Hamilton Driver class.

.. image:: ../../_static/Hamilton_ApplyMeetup_2022_wrapper.svg
  :alt: The wrapper driver class helps ensure your existing API expectations are matched.

This is a best practice because:

#. When migrating, it's best to avoid making too many changes. So don't change your API expectations if you can.
#. It allows you to easily insert Apache Hamilton into any context. Thereby minimizing potential migration problems.
