examples/spark/pyspark_udfs/README.md, before:

# Using Hamilton to help manage your pyspark UDFs

Here we have a version of the Hamilton hello world example showing how you can take some Hamilton functions and then
easily run them as pyspark UDFs.

## Dependencies

`pip install "sf-hamilton[pyspark, visualization]"` for the right dependencies to run this example.

## File organization:

* `pandas_udfs.py` contains UDF definitions that Hamilton will know how to run as `pandas_udfs` on pyspark.
* `vanilla_udfs.py` contains UDF definitions that Hamilton will know how to run as row based UDFs on pyspark.
* `run.py` contains spark driver and hamilton driver code to run everything.

## To run

```bash
python run.py pandas  # to run using pandas_udfs
python run.py vanilla  # to run using vanilla_udfs
```
You should get the following as output:

```
+-----+-------+------------------+----------------+-----------------------------+---+---+--------------+
|spend|signups|     avg_3wk_spend|spend_per_signup|spend_zero_mean_unit_variance|foo|bar|augmented_mean|
+-----+-------+------------------+----------------+-----------------------------+---+---+--------------+
|   10|      1|              10.0|            10.0|                   -1.0644054|1.0|2.0|           3.0|
|   10|     10|              10.0|             1.0|                   -1.0644054|1.0|2.0|           3.0|
|   20|     50|13.333333333333334|             0.4|                  -0.48382062|1.0|2.0|           3.0|
|   40|    100|23.333333333333332|             0.4|                    0.6773489|1.0|2.0|           3.0|
|   40|    200|33.333333333333336|             0.2|                    0.6773489|1.0|2.0|           3.0|
|   50|    400|43.333333333333336|           0.125|                    1.2579336|1.0|2.0|           3.0|
+-----+-------+------------------+----------------+-----------------------------+---+---+--------------+
```
with Hamilton showing you the following execution visualization:
![udf hamilton execution](my_spark_udf.dot.png)
Note: foo, bar, and augmented_mean do not depend on any inputs in the dataframe.

# What Hamilton does under the hood

You need to use the `PySparkUDFGraphAdapter` for this to work. This is because Hamilton needs to know how to
augment operations for pyspark. With this adapter, Hamilton will:

1. Takes care of the spark boilerplate for you in creating a UDF.
2. Intelligently knows whether to pull from the dataframe for input to a function, based on column names,
or pulls from the passed in dictionary of inputs for that UDF.
3. **Append** the requested outputs to the dataframe.
4. Operate on the premise that as part of the inputs field to `dr.execute(..., inputs=INPUTS)`, the `INPUTS`
dictionary contains a mapping of column name to pyspark dataframe. Hamilton will then know to use that **single**
dataframe to pull from and append columns to, to coordinate UDF execution.
5. Assume all functions are `map` based functions. If they're not, then you'll need to manually
manage that outside of Hamilton.

# Why is Hamilton useful here?

1. It makes it easy to write UDFs that can be run in a distributed setting.
2. Those UDFs can be run in other contexts that don't use spark!
3. Hamilton forces you to curate UDFs and thus they subsequently can be versioned, tested, documented, and reused
in other spark jobs easily. Think reusable feature definitions, think reusable metric definitions! Assumption: they
have to be `map` based functions.
4. Anyone who wants to use these UDFs, MUST ALIGN ON COLUMNS NAMES! This is a good thing, because it means that you can
standardize on column names and reuse UDFs across different spark jobs, which lowers your maintenance burden!
5. If you don't care about intermediate outputs, Hamilton won't add them. It'll only add the outputs you want to the
passed in dataframe.

# Limitations

1. The `PySparkUDFGraphAdapter` currently only supports `map` based functions.
2. The only `pandas_udfs` signature currently supported is for functions with pd.Series as inputs, and pd.Series as output.
3. `@check_output` annotations are not currently supported for pyspark UDFs at this time. But we're working on it - ping
us in slack (or via issues) if you need this feature!

# Future work

## Auto vectorize UDFs to be pandas_udfs
We could under the hood translate basic vanilla python UDF functions to use the pandas_udf route. This could be a
variable passed to the PySparkUDFGraphAdapter to enable it/or require some annotation on the function, or both.
Let us know if this would be useful to you!

## All the Pandas UDF signatures

(1) Let us know what you need.
(2) Implementation is a matter of (a) getting the API right, and (b) making sure it fits with the Hamilton way of thinking.

## Aggregation UDFs

We just need to determine what a good API for this would be. We're open to suggestions!

## Other dataframe operations

We could support other dataframe operations, like joins, etc. We're open to suggestions! The main issue is creating
a good API for this.

# Other questions

## Can't I just use pyspark dataframes directly with Hamilton functions?

Yes, with Hamilton you could write functions that define a named flow that operates entirely over pyspark dataframes.
However, you lose a lot of the flexibility of Hamilton doing things that way. We're open to suggestions,
or API changes to make this approach easier.

Commit message:

Replaces most links and Hamilton references (#1339)
This does I think most of the work required to shift to the new docs
by replacing links and naming where appropriate.

This is still missing critical parts that we need in our docs, e.g. the
standard Apache boilerplate ...


Squashed commits --
* Replaces most links

This does not replace the hamilton.dagworks.io links
until we have hamilton.apache.org set up and running.

* Updates docs to reference Hamilton as Apache Hamilton

I spot checked this.

* Adds ability to build and publish docs

This does a few things:

1. Adds .github workflow to build things
2. Adds .asf.yaml that specifies that a site should be built and deployed.

No real design decisions, other than this seems to work and is low effort.

Squashed commits below:

Adds to asf.yaml and attempts to write to docs to branch (+4 squashed commits)
Squashed commits:
[e44ca55e] Adds incubating reference
[486c57fc] Adds pushing to asf-* branches

Will see if this works.
[4312df53] Fixes docs and creates PDF
[919ccc22] Adds github workflow to build docs

WIP commit.

* Adds incubating to main.md

* Changes references to hamilton.apache.org

This change updates links to the right documentation domain.

* Tries to make badges work

* Fixes whitespace

* Increase fetch depth for docs build in workflows

Was getting a too shallow warning. Gemini suggested
increasing the fetch depth - so I set it to 0 to check
out the whole repo.

* Adds link to PDF

* Found more places that I missed changing the domain

I missed these domain changes. Note the docs don't have
en/latest/ on them.

* Reduces overuse of Apache Hamilton

Since in most cases Hamilton suffices when describing concepts within
Hamilton.

examples/spark/pyspark_udfs/README.md, after:

# Using Apache Hamilton to help manage your pyspark UDFs

Here we have a version of the Apache Hamilton hello world example showing how you can take some Apache Hamilton functions and then
easily run them as pyspark UDFs.

## Dependencies

`pip install "sf-hamilton[pyspark, visualization]"` for the right dependencies to run this example.

## File organization:

* `pandas_udfs.py` contains UDF definitions that Apache Hamilton will know how to run as `pandas_udfs` on pyspark.
* `vanilla_udfs.py` contains UDF definitions that Apache Hamilton will know how to run as row based UDFs on pyspark.
* `run.py` contains spark driver and hamilton driver code to run everything.

## To run

```bash
python run.py pandas  # to run using pandas_udfs
python run.py vanilla  # to run using vanilla_udfs
```
You should get the following as output:

```
+-----+-------+------------------+----------------+-----------------------------+---+---+--------------+
|spend|signups|     avg_3wk_spend|spend_per_signup|spend_zero_mean_unit_variance|foo|bar|augmented_mean|
+-----+-------+------------------+----------------+-----------------------------+---+---+--------------+
|   10|      1|              10.0|            10.0|                   -1.0644054|1.0|2.0|           3.0|
|   10|     10|              10.0|             1.0|                   -1.0644054|1.0|2.0|           3.0|
|   20|     50|13.333333333333334|             0.4|                  -0.48382062|1.0|2.0|           3.0|
|   40|    100|23.333333333333332|             0.4|                    0.6773489|1.0|2.0|           3.0|
|   40|    200|33.333333333333336|             0.2|                    0.6773489|1.0|2.0|           3.0|
|   50|    400|43.333333333333336|           0.125|                    1.2579336|1.0|2.0|           3.0|
+-----+-------+------------------+----------------+-----------------------------+---+---+--------------+
```
with Apache Hamilton showing you the following execution visualization:
![udf hamilton execution](my_spark_udf.dot.png)
Note: foo, bar, and augmented_mean do not depend on any inputs in the dataframe.

# What Apache Hamilton does under the hood

You need to use the `PySparkUDFGraphAdapter` for this to work. This is because Apache Hamilton needs to know how to
augment operations for pyspark. With this adapter, Apache Hamilton will:

1. Takes care of the spark boilerplate for you in creating a UDF.
2. Intelligently knows whether to pull from the dataframe for input to a function, based on column names,
or pulls from the passed in dictionary of inputs for that UDF.
3. **Append** the requested outputs to the dataframe.
4. Operate on the premise that as part of the inputs field to `dr.execute(..., inputs=INPUTS)`, the `INPUTS`
dictionary contains a mapping of column name to pyspark dataframe. Apache Hamilton will then know to use that **single**
dataframe to pull from and append columns to, to coordinate UDF execution.
5. Assume all functions are `map` based functions. If they're not, then you'll need to manually
manage that outside of Apache Hamilton.

# Why is Apache Hamilton useful here?

1. It makes it easy to write UDFs that can be run in a distributed setting.
2. Those UDFs can be run in other contexts that don't use spark!
3. Apache Hamilton forces you to curate UDFs and thus they subsequently can be versioned, tested, documented, and reused
in other spark jobs easily. Think reusable feature definitions, think reusable metric definitions! Assumption: they
have to be `map` based functions.
4. Anyone who wants to use these UDFs, MUST ALIGN ON COLUMNS NAMES! This is a good thing, because it means that you can
standardize on column names and reuse UDFs across different spark jobs, which lowers your maintenance burden!
5. If you don't care about intermediate outputs, Apache Hamilton won't add them. It'll only add the outputs you want to the
passed in dataframe.

# Limitations

1. The `PySparkUDFGraphAdapter` currently only supports `map` based functions.
2. The only `pandas_udfs` signature currently supported is for functions with pd.Series as inputs, and pd.Series as output.
3. `@check_output` annotations are not currently supported for pyspark UDFs at this time. But we're working on it - ping
us in slack (or via issues) if you need this feature!

# Future work

## Auto vectorize UDFs to be pandas_udfs
We could under the hood translate basic vanilla python UDF functions to use the pandas_udf route. This could be a
variable passed to the PySparkUDFGraphAdapter to enable it/or require some annotation on the function, or both.
Let us know if this would be useful to you!

## All the Pandas UDF signatures

(1) Let us know what you need.
(2) Implementation is a matter of (a) getting the API right, and (b) making sure it fits with the Apache Hamilton way of thinking.

## Aggregation UDFs

We just need to determine what a good API for this would be. We're open to suggestions!

## Other dataframe operations

We could support other dataframe operations, like joins, etc. We're open to suggestions! The main issue is creating
a good API for this.

# Other questions

## Can't I just use pyspark dataframes directly with Apache Hamilton functions?

Yes, with Apache Hamilton you could write functions that define a named flow that operates entirely over pyspark dataframes.
However, you lose a lot of the flexibility of Apache Hamilton doing things that way. We're open to suggestions,
or API changes to make this approach easier.
