docs/integrations/streamlit.md, before:

# Streamlit

[Streamlit](https://streamlit.io/) is an open-source Python library to create web applications with minimal effort. It's an effective solution to create simple dashboards, interactive data visualizations, and proof-of-concepts for data science, machine learning, and LLM applications. On this page, you'll learn how Hamilton can help you:
- Write cleaner Streamlit applications
- Reduce friction transition between proof-of-concept and production
- Improve Streamlit performance

## Challenges
### 1. Hard to read UI and data flows.

Complex Streamlit applications become difficult to debug because of the complex flow of operations. In the simplest case, all the code is under the main function call `app()` and components are added to the UI from top to bottom. Components can be nested under `columns`, `containers`, `expanders`, `tabs`, and more to organize them on the page by using the `with` Python syntax. A good coding practice is to separate data transformations from UI, but Streamlit can blur these lines. Things are further complicated when components are added or updated outside the main scope `app()`. As user interactions, data transformations, state, and UI layout become difficult to trace, risks of breaking changes increase and debugging is more challenging.

```python
import streamlit as st

# external function writing component
def greeting(name: str) -> None:
    st.write(f"Hello {name}")

def app():
    st.title("Hamilton + Streamlit 🐱‍🚀")

    main, settings = st.tabs(["Main", "Settings"])
    left, right = st.columns(2)

    # nesting tabs and columns
    with main:
        with left:
            name = st.text_input(
                "What's your name", value="Lambda"
            )

        with right:
            greeting(name)

if __name__ == "__main__":
    app()
```
> ⚠ This example is illustratory and real applications quickly get more complex.

### 2. Cache and state management
When the user interacts with the app, Streamlit reruns your entire Python code to update what's displayed on screen ([reference](https://docs.streamlit.io/get-started/fundamentals/main-concepts#data-flow)). By default, no data is preserved between updates and all computations need to be executed again. Your application suffer slow downs if you handle large dataframes or load machine learning models in memory for instance. To overcome this limitation, Streamlit allows to [cache expensive operations](https://docs.streamlit.io/library/advanced-features/caching) via the decorators `@streamlit.cache_data` and `@streamlit.cache_resource` and [store state variables](https://docs.streamlit.io/library/api-reference/session-state) between reruns in the global dictionary `streamlit.session_state` or via `key` attributes of input widget. State management becomes particularly important when building a [multipage app](https://docs.streamlit.io/get-started/tutorials/create-a-multipage-app) where each page is defined in a separate Python file and can't commmunicate by default.

```python
import pandas as pd
import streamlit as st

@st.cache_data
def load_dataframe(path: str) -> pd.DataFrame:
    return pd.read_parquet(path)

def app():
    st.title("Hamilton + Streamlit 🐱‍🚀")

    # load_dataframe() will only run the first time
    df = load_dataframe(path="...")
    st.dataframes(df)

    # If favorite flavor is known, display it.
    if st.session_state("favorite"):
        st.write(f"Your favorite ice cream is: {st.session_state['favorite']}")
    # Ask for the favorite ice cream until an answer is given.
    else:
        st.text_inputs(
            "What's your favorite ice cream flavor?",
            key="favorite",  # key to st.session_state
        )

if __name__ == "__main__":
    app()
```
> ⚠ This example is illustratory and real applications quickly get more complex.


## Hamilton + Streamlit
Adding Hamilton to your Streamlit application can provide a better separation between the dataflow and the UI logic. They pair nicely together because Hamilton is also stateless. Once defined, each call to `Driver.execute()` is independent. Therefore, on each Streamlit rerun, you use `Driver.execute()` to complete computations. Using Hamilton this way allows you to write your dataflow into Python modules and outside of the Streamlit.

### Example
In this example, we will build a simple financial dashboard based on the Kaggle [Bank Marketing Dataset](https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/janiobachmann/bank-marketing-dataset).

> The full code can be found on [GitHub](https://github.com/DAGWorks-Inc/hamilton/tree/main/examples/streamlit)

First, Hamilton transformations are defined in the module `logic.py`. This includes downloading the data from the web, getting unique values for `job`, conducting groupby aggregates, and creating `plotly` figures.
```python
# logic.py
import pandas as pd
import plotly.express as px
from plotly.graph_objs import Figure


def base_df() -> pd.DataFrame:
    path = "https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Lexie88rus/bank-marketing-analysis/master/bank.csv"
    return pd.read_csv(path)


def all_jobs(base_df: pd.DataFrame) -> list[str]:
    return base_df["job"].unique().tolist()


def balance_per_job(base_df: pd.DataFrame) -> pd.DataFrame:
    return base_df.groupby("job")["balance"].describe().astype(int)


def balance_per_job_boxplot(base_df: pd.DataFrame) -> Figure:
    return px.box(base_df, x="job", y="balance")


def job_df(base_df: pd.DataFrame, selected_job: str) -> pd.DataFrame:
    return base_df.loc[base_df['job']==selected_job]


def job_hist(job_df: pd.DataFrame) -> Figure:
    return px.histogram(job_df["balance"])
```

![logic dataflow](./streamlit_logic.png)

Then, the Streamlit UI is defined in `app.py`. Notice a few things:
- `app.py` doesn't have to depend on `pandas` and `plotly`.
- `@cache_resource` allows to create the `Driver` only once.
- `@cache_data` on `_execute()` will automatically cache any Hamilton result based on the combination of arguments (`final_vars`, `inputs`, and `overrides`)
- `get_state_inputs()` and `get_state_overrides()` will collect values from user inputs.
- `execute()` parses the inputs and overrides from the state and call `_execute()`.

```python
# app.py
from typing import Optional

from hamilton import driver
import streamlit as st

import logic

# cache to avoid rebuilding the Driver
@st.cache_resource
def get_hamilton_driver() -> driver.Driver:
    return (
        driver.Builder()
        .with_modules(logic)
        .build()
    )

# cache results for the set of inputs
@st.cache_data
def _execute(
    final_vars: list[str],
    inputs: Optional[dict] = None,
    overrides: Optional[dict] = None,
) -> dict:
    """Generic utility to cache Hamilton results"""
    dr = get_hamilton_driver()
    return dr.execute(final_vars, inputs=inputs, overrides=overrides)


def get_state_inputs() -> dict:
    keys = ["selected_job"]
    return {k: v for k, v in st.session_state.items() if k in keys}


def get_state_overrides() -> dict:
    keys = []
    return {k: v for k, v in st.session_state.items() if k in keys}


def execute(final_vars: list[str]):
    return _execute(final_vars, get_state_inputs(), get_state_overrides())


def app():
    st.title("Hamilton + Streamlit 🐱‍🚀")

    # run the base data that always needs to be displayed
    data = execute(["all_jobs", "balance_per_job", "balance_per_job_boxplot"])

    # display the base dataframe and plotly chart
    st.dataframe(data["balance_per_job"])
    st.plotly_chart(data["balance_per_job_boxplot"])

    # get the selection options from `data`
    # store the selection in the state `selected_job`
    st.selectbox("Select a job", options=data["all_jobs"], key="selected_job")
    # get the value from the dict
    st.plotly_chart(execute(["job_hist"])["job_hist"])


if __name__ == "__main__":
    app()
```

### Benefits
- **Clearer scope**: the decoupling between `app.py` and `logic.py` makes it easier to add data transformations or extend UI, and debug errors associated with either.
- **Reusable code**: the module `logic.py` can be reused elsewhere with Hamilton.
    - If you are building a proof-of-concept with Streamlit, your Hamilton module will be able to grow with your project and be useful for your production pipelines.
    - If you are already building dataflows with Hamilton, using it with Streamlit ensures your dashboard metrics have the same implementation with your production pipeline (i.e., prevent [implementation skew](https://building.nubank.com.br/dealing-with-train-serve-skew-in-real-time-ml-models-a-short-guide/))
- **Performance boost**: by caching the Hamilton Driver and its execution call, we are able to effectively cache all data operations in a few lines of code. Furthermore, Hamilton can scale further by using a remote task executor on a separate machine from the Streamlit application.

Commit message:

Replaces most links and Hamilton references (#1339)
This does I think most of the work required to shift to the new docs
by replacing links and naming where appropriate.

This is still missing critical parts that we need in our docs, e.g. the
standard Apache boilerplate ...


Squashed commits --
* Replaces most links

This does not replace the hamilton.dagworks.io links
until we have hamilton.apache.org set up and running.

* Updates docs to reference Hamilton as Apache Hamilton

I spot checked this.

* Adds ability to build and publish docs

This does a few things:

1. Adds .github workflow to build things
2. Adds .asf.yaml that specifies that a site should be built and deployed.

No real design decisions, other than this seems to work and is low effort.

Squashed commits below:

Adds to asf.yaml and attempts to write to docs to branch (+4 squashed commits)
Squashed commits:
[e44ca55e] Adds incubating reference
[486c57fc] Adds pushing to asf-* branches

Will see if this works.
[4312df53] Fixes docs and creates PDF
[919ccc22] Adds github workflow to build docs

WIP commit.

* Adds incubating to main.md

* Changes references to hamilton.apache.org

This change updates links to the right documentation domain.

* Tries to make badges work

* Fixes whitespace

* Increase fetch depth for docs build in workflows

Was getting a too shallow warning. Gemini suggested
increasing the fetch depth - so I set it to 0 to check
out the whole repo.

* Adds link to PDF

* Found more places that I missed changing the domain

I missed these domain changes. Note the docs don't have
en/latest/ on them.

* Reduces overuse of Apache Hamilton

Since in most cases Hamilton suffices when describing concepts within
Hamilton.

docs/integrations/streamlit.md, after:

# Streamlit

[Streamlit](https://streamlit.io/) is an open-source Python library to create web applications with minimal effort. It's an effective solution to create simple dashboards, interactive data visualizations, and proof-of-concepts for data science, machine learning, and LLM applications. On this page, you'll learn how Apache Hamilton can help you:
- Write cleaner Streamlit applications
- Reduce friction transition between proof-of-concept and production
- Improve Streamlit performance

## Challenges
### 1. Hard to read UI and data flows.

Complex Streamlit applications become difficult to debug because of the complex flow of operations. In the simplest case, all the code is under the main function call `app()` and components are added to the UI from top to bottom. Components can be nested under `columns`, `containers`, `expanders`, `tabs`, and more to organize them on the page by using the `with` Python syntax. A good coding practice is to separate data transformations from UI, but Streamlit can blur these lines. Things are further complicated when components are added or updated outside the main scope `app()`. As user interactions, data transformations, state, and UI layout become difficult to trace, risks of breaking changes increase and debugging is more challenging.

```python
import streamlit as st

# external function writing component
def greeting(name: str) -> None:
    st.write(f"Hello {name}")

def app():
    st.title("Apache Hamilton + Streamlit 🐱‍🚀")

    main, settings = st.tabs(["Main", "Settings"])
    left, right = st.columns(2)

    # nesting tabs and columns
    with main:
        with left:
            name = st.text_input(
                "What's your name", value="Lambda"
            )

        with right:
            greeting(name)

if __name__ == "__main__":
    app()
```
> ⚠ This example is illustratory and real applications quickly get more complex.

### 2. Cache and state management
When the user interacts with the app, Streamlit reruns your entire Python code to update what's displayed on screen ([reference](https://docs.streamlit.io/get-started/fundamentals/main-concepts#data-flow)). By default, no data is preserved between updates and all computations need to be executed again. Your application suffer slow downs if you handle large dataframes or load machine learning models in memory for instance. To overcome this limitation, Streamlit allows to [cache expensive operations](https://docs.streamlit.io/library/advanced-features/caching) via the decorators `@streamlit.cache_data` and `@streamlit.cache_resource` and [store state variables](https://docs.streamlit.io/library/api-reference/session-state) between reruns in the global dictionary `streamlit.session_state` or via `key` attributes of input widget. State management becomes particularly important when building a [multipage app](https://docs.streamlit.io/get-started/tutorials/create-a-multipage-app) where each page is defined in a separate Python file and can't commmunicate by default.

```python
import pandas as pd
import streamlit as st

@st.cache_data
def load_dataframe(path: str) -> pd.DataFrame:
    return pd.read_parquet(path)

def app():
    st.title("Apache Hamilton + Streamlit 🐱‍🚀")

    # load_dataframe() will only run the first time
    df = load_dataframe(path="...")
    st.dataframes(df)

    # If favorite flavor is known, display it.
    if st.session_state("favorite"):
        st.write(f"Your favorite ice cream is: {st.session_state['favorite']}")
    # Ask for the favorite ice cream until an answer is given.
    else:
        st.text_inputs(
            "What's your favorite ice cream flavor?",
            key="favorite",  # key to st.session_state
        )

if __name__ == "__main__":
    app()
```
> ⚠ This example is illustratory and real applications quickly get more complex.


## Apache Hamilton + Streamlit
Adding Apache Hamilton to your Streamlit application can provide a better separation between the dataflow and the UI logic. They pair nicely together because Apache Hamilton is also stateless. Once defined, each call to `Driver.execute()` is independent. Therefore, on each Streamlit rerun, you use `Driver.execute()` to complete computations. Using Apache Hamilton this way allows you to write your dataflow into Python modules and outside of the Streamlit.

### Example
In this example, we will build a simple financial dashboard based on the Kaggle [Bank Marketing Dataset](https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/janiobachmann/bank-marketing-dataset).

> The full code can be found on [GitHub](https://github.com/apache/hamilton/tree/main/examples/streamlit)

First, Apache Hamilton transformations are defined in the module `logic.py`. This includes downloading the data from the web, getting unique values for `job`, conducting groupby aggregates, and creating `plotly` figures.
```python
# logic.py
import pandas as pd
import plotly.express as px
from plotly.graph_objs import Figure


def base_df() -> pd.DataFrame:
    path = "https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Lexie88rus/bank-marketing-analysis/master/bank.csv"
    return pd.read_csv(path)


def all_jobs(base_df: pd.DataFrame) -> list[str]:
    return base_df["job"].unique().tolist()


def balance_per_job(base_df: pd.DataFrame) -> pd.DataFrame:
    return base_df.groupby("job")["balance"].describe().astype(int)


def balance_per_job_boxplot(base_df: pd.DataFrame) -> Figure:
    return px.box(base_df, x="job", y="balance")


def job_df(base_df: pd.DataFrame, selected_job: str) -> pd.DataFrame:
    return base_df.loc[base_df['job']==selected_job]


def job_hist(job_df: pd.DataFrame) -> Figure:
    return px.histogram(job_df["balance"])
```

![logic dataflow](./streamlit_logic.png)

Then, the Streamlit UI is defined in `app.py`. Notice a few things:
- `app.py` doesn't have to depend on `pandas` and `plotly`.
- `@cache_resource` allows to create the `Driver` only once.
- `@cache_data` on `_execute()` will automatically cache any Apache Hamilton result based on the combination of arguments (`final_vars`, `inputs`, and `overrides`)
- `get_state_inputs()` and `get_state_overrides()` will collect values from user inputs.
- `execute()` parses the inputs and overrides from the state and call `_execute()`.

```python
# app.py
from typing import Optional

from hamilton import driver
import streamlit as st

import logic

# cache to avoid rebuilding the Driver
@st.cache_resource
def get_hamilton_driver() -> driver.Driver:
    return (
        driver.Builder()
        .with_modules(logic)
        .build()
    )

# cache results for the set of inputs
@st.cache_data
def _execute(
    final_vars: list[str],
    inputs: Optional[dict] = None,
    overrides: Optional[dict] = None,
) -> dict:
    """Generic utility to cache Apache Hamilton results"""
    dr = get_hamilton_driver()
    return dr.execute(final_vars, inputs=inputs, overrides=overrides)


def get_state_inputs() -> dict:
    keys = ["selected_job"]
    return {k: v for k, v in st.session_state.items() if k in keys}


def get_state_overrides() -> dict:
    keys = []
    return {k: v for k, v in st.session_state.items() if k in keys}


def execute(final_vars: list[str]):
    return _execute(final_vars, get_state_inputs(), get_state_overrides())


def app():
    st.title("Apache Hamilton + Streamlit 🐱‍🚀")

    # run the base data that always needs to be displayed
    data = execute(["all_jobs", "balance_per_job", "balance_per_job_boxplot"])

    # display the base dataframe and plotly chart
    st.dataframe(data["balance_per_job"])
    st.plotly_chart(data["balance_per_job_boxplot"])

    # get the selection options from `data`
    # store the selection in the state `selected_job`
    st.selectbox("Select a job", options=data["all_jobs"], key="selected_job")
    # get the value from the dict
    st.plotly_chart(execute(["job_hist"])["job_hist"])


if __name__ == "__main__":
    app()
```

### Benefits
- **Clearer scope**: the decoupling between `app.py` and `logic.py` makes it easier to add data transformations or extend UI, and debug errors associated with either.
- **Reusable code**: the module `logic.py` can be reused elsewhere with Apache Hamilton.
    - If you are building a proof-of-concept with Streamlit, your Apache Hamilton module will be able to grow with your project and be useful for your production pipelines.
    - If you are already building dataflows with Apache Hamilton, using it with Streamlit ensures your dashboard metrics have the same implementation with your production pipeline (i.e., prevent [implementation skew](https://building.nubank.com.br/dealing-with-train-serve-skew-in-real-time-ml-models-a-short-guide/))
- **Performance boost**: by caching the Hamilton Driver and its execution call, we are able to effectively cache all data operations in a few lines of code. Furthermore, Apache Hamilton can scale further by using a remote task executor on a separate machine from the Streamlit application.
